Someone from your past has returned to steal your heart.
All the troubles you have will pass away very quickly.
Flattery will go far tonight.
There's a secret romance blooming! Go for it, in spite of your hesitation.
Your skills will accomplish what the force of many cannot.
Although it feels like a roller coaster now, life will calm down.
You will come to realizations in your life that change you forever.
You are about to begin a prosperous business venture.
The mood is right for a friendly chat to lead to romance.
Many new friends will be attracted to your friendly and charming ways.
You will always possess a charm and sense of humor that attracts others.
There will be many surprises: unexpected gains are likely.
You will have a pleasant trip.
You will be free of the heavy burdens you have been carrying.
Romance comes into your life this year in a very unusual way.
A surprise announcement will free you.
Your life becomes more and more of an adventure.
Someone is speaking well of you.
A heavy burden is lifted with a phone message or letter.
It's a good time to finish up old tasks.
What you think is a problem is an opportunity for growth.
You are on the verge of something big.
A new voyage will fill your life with untold memories.
You will become a great philanthropist in your later years.
A pleasant experience is ahead: don't pass it by.
Among the lucky, you are the chosen one.
A thrilling time is in your immediate future.
Everywhere you choose to go, friendly faces will greet you.
You are going to have a pleasant experience.
Good news will be brought to you by mail.
Happier days are definitely ahead for you, struggle has ended.
You will attract cultured and artistic people to your home.
Everyone agrees you are the best.
You will take a chance in something in the near future.
A chance meeting opens new doors to success and friendship.
You will make a friendship with a very surprising person.
Wealth and honor will come to you soon.
Good news will come to you from far away.
You are going to have a very comfortable old age.
You will advance socially without effort on your part.
All your hard work will soon pay off.
You may attend a party where strange customs prevail.
Reconcile with an old friend. All has been forgotten.
This is a great day to handle those real estate matters!
Be prepared for a sudden, needed, and happy change in plans.
A pleasant surprise is in store for you.
You will never regret the present, you live to its fullest.
You are almost there.
You are given the chance to take part in an exciting adventure.
