There is a gradual improvement. Feelings are sweet and tender.
Explore your own world by working together with friends.
Passionate new romance appears in your life when you least expect it.
A smooth long journey! Great Expectations.
Those who bring sunshine to the lives of others cannot keep it from themselves.
Sharing little joys offers great hope to others.
For success today look first to yourself.
Your sense of humor reveals itself at just the right times!
Apply yourself to the basics and progress will follow.
Nothing gets in the way of your vision of yourself in the future.
Put the data you have uncovered to beneficial use.
He who controls others may be powerful, but he who has mastered himself is mightier still.
Time is the wisest counselor.
Culture and customs of China attract you.
Do not be afraid of competition.
The architect of your destiny is yourself.
Praise a fine day at night.
When you gather all your resources together, Goals are accomplished.
Doing what you love is freedom.  Loving what you do is happiness.
He deserves paradise who makes his companions laugh.
Success is in the details.
Nothing in the world is difficult if one sets his mind to it.
Home is where your heart is.
Life is a tragedy for those who feel and a comedy for those who think.
You are tasting the sweets of success.
If you have a great ambition, take as big a step as possible in the direction of fulfilling it.
You have much skill in expressing yourself to be effective.
He who has good health is young.
Pardon is the choicest flower of victory.
May life throw you a pleasant curve.
People say you have sharp sense and superb intellect.
Two small jumps are sometimes better than one big leap.
Do what is right, not what you should.
From listening comes wisdom and from speaking repentance.
Tastes like chicken.
The philosophy of one century is the common sense of the next.
When you learn to be flexible, amazing opportunities reveal themselves!
You are broad minded and socially active.
Win as if you were used to it, lose as if you enjoyed it for a change.
Everything you add to the truth subtracts from the truth.
As you slide down the bannister of life, may the splinters never point your way.
Be cautious while walking in darkness alone.
Anyone who dares to be, can never be weak.
Love is the glue that holds together everything in the world.
You are strong and brave.
Every important call is a close one.
Fortitude is the marshal of thought, the armor of the will, and the fort of reason.
He who climbs a ladder must begin at the first step.
Be confident and you will succeed.
Your destiny lies before you, choose wisely.
Genius is one percent inspiration and ninety-nine percent perspiration.
Cleverness is serviceable for everything, sufficient for nothing.
You have the rare ability to recognize ability in others.
Welcome each day as a fresh new beginning.
You have a natural grace and consideration for others.
You are never bitter, deceptive, or petty.
You make other people realize that there exist other beauties in the world.
Try a new system or a different approach.
In order to take, one must first give.
Keep on charging the enemy so long as there is life.
The only certainty is that nothing is certain.
Many a false step is made by standing still.
With careness anad understanding, your life will have no obstacles.
There is no mistake so great as that of being always right.
The harder you work, the luckier you get.
You are contemplating some action which will bring credit upon you.
A person is never to old to learn.
Everything has beauty but not everyone sees it.
Travel hopefully; arrive expectantly.
When you speak honestly and openly, others truly listen to you.
Delay is the antidote for anger.
You always know the right times to be assertive or simply wait.
Never bring unhappy feelings into your home.
You long to see the great pyramids in Egypt.
Fear is the root of all evil.
Adventure can be real happiness.
With a little more hard work, you creativity takes you to great heights.
