Let me tell you the one thing I have against Moses. 
He took us forty years into the desert in order to bring 
us to the one place in the Middle East that has no oil!

Humility is no substitute for a good personality.

Everybody likes a kidder but nobody loans him money.

Television is a medium because it is neither rare nor 
well done.

Never do anything against conscience even 
if the state demands it.

Never assume the obvious is true.

You cannot prevent and prepare for war at the same time.

Insanity is hereditary; you can get it from your children.

In Israel, in order to be a realist you must believe in miracles.

To turn $100 into $110 is work. 
To turn $100 million into $110 million is inevitable.

When people are free to do as they please, they usually imitate each other.

I never think of the future. It comes soon enough.

Never go to bed mad - Stay up and fight.

Television has proved that people will look at anything rather than each other.

Politics is the art of looking for trouble, finding it 
everywhere, diagnosing it incorrectly, and applying the 
wrong remedies.

Vote for the man who promises the least; he'll be the least disappointing.

Too bad that all the people who know how to run the country are 
busy driving taxi cabs and cutting hair.

History teaches us that men and nations behave wisely 
only after they have exhausted all other alternatives.

Science without religion is lame, religion without science is blind.

Capital punishment would be more effective as a 
preventive measure if it were administered prior to 
the crime. 
I refuse to join any club that would 
have me as a member.

I have had a perfectly wonderful evening. 
But this wasn't it.

Weakness of attitude becomes weakness of character.

Anyone who has never made a mistake has never tried anything new.

Everything should be made as simple as possible, but not simpler.
Example isn't another way to teach, it is the only way to teach.

If we knew what it was we were doing, it would not be called research, would it ?

Intellectuals solve problems; geniuses prevent them.

Joy in looking and comprehending is nature's most beautiful gift.

Learn from yesterday, live for today, hope for tomorrow. 
The important thing is to not stop questioning.

Life is like riding a bicycle. 
To keep your balance you must keep moving.

Problems cannot be solved at the same level of 
awareness that created them.

Put your hand on a hot stove for a minute, and it seems like an hour. Sit with a pretty girl for an hour, and it seems like a minute.  THAT'S relativity.

Setting an example is not the main means of influencing others; it is the only means.

The most aggravating thing about the younger generation is that I no longer belong to it.

The search for truth is more precious than its possession.

If you are out to describe the truth, leave elegance to the tailor.
There are two ways to live your life. 
One is as though nothing is a miracle. 
The other is as though everything is a miracle.

The aim of education must be the training of independently acting and thinking individuals, who, however, see in the service of the community their highest life problem.
When the solution is simple, God is answering.

I'm Jewish. I don't work out. 
If God had wanted us to bend over, He would have put diamonds on the floor.

He who limps is still walking.

As long as the world is turning and spinning, 
we're gonna be dizzy and we're gonna make mistakes.

Humor is just another defense against the universe.

Look, I don't want to wax philosophic, but I will say that 
if you're alive you've got to flap your arms and legs, 
you've got to jump around a lot, for life is the very 
opposite of death, and therefore you must at very least 
think noisy and colorfully, or you're not alive.

I've had great success being a total idiot.

It's amazing that the amount of news that happens in the 
world every day always just exactly fits the newspaper.

Accept everything about yourself - I mean everything, 
You are you and that is the beginning and the end - 
no apologies, no regrets.

Any fact that needs to be disclosed should be put out 
now or as quickly as possible, because otherwise the 
bleeding will not end.

Even a paranoid has some real enemies.
In crises the most daring course is often safest.

Ninety percent of the politicians give the other 
ten percent a bad reputation.

No country can act wisely simultaneously in every part 
of the globe at every moment of time.

The task of the leader is to get his people from where 
they are to where they have not been.

One cannot and must not try to erase the past merely because it does not fit the present.

Those who don't know how to weep with their whole heart, don't know how to laugh either.

To be or not to be is not a question of compromise. 
Either you be or you don't be.

To be successful, a woman has to be much better at 
her job than a man.

Trust yourself. Create the kind of self that you will be  happy to live with all your life. 
Make the most of yourself  by fanning the tiny, inner sparks of possibility into flames of achievement.

You'll never find a better sparring partner than adversity.

We have always said that in our war with the Arabs we had a secret weapon - no alternative.

Courage is a special kind of knowledge: 
the knowledge of how to fear what ought to be feared 
and how not to fear what ought not to be feared.

A smile is a curve that sets everything straight.

Cleaning your house while your kids are still growing 
is like shoveling the walk before it stops snowing.

Housework can't kill you, but why take a chance?

I want my children to have all the things I couldn't afford. 
Then I want to move in with them.

Most children threaten at times to run away from home. 
This is the only thing that keeps some parents going.

We spend the first twelve months of our children's lives 
teaching them to walk and talk and the next twelve telling 
them to sit down and shut up.

When you are eight years old, nothing is any of your business.

Happiness is having a large, loving, caring, 
close-knit family in another city.

I honestly think it is better to be a failure at something 
you love than to be a success at something you hate.

If you ask what is the single most important key to longevity, I would have to say it is avoiding worry, stress and tension. 
And if you didn't ask me, I'd still have to say it.

The secret of a good sermon is to have a good beginning 
and a good ending, then having the two as close together as possible.

You can't help getting older, but you don't have to get old.

It's no longer a question of staying healthy. 
It's a question of finding a sickness you like.
A committee is a group that keeps minutes and loses hours.

If opportunity doesn't knock, build a door.

Laughter is an instant vacation.

Give me golf clubs, fresh air and a beautiful partner, 
and you can keep the clubs and the fresh air.

I don't deserve this award, but I have arthritis and 
I don't deserve that either.

Remember-you can't beam through a force field. 
So, don't try it.

Doubt is part of all religion. 
All the religious thinkers were doubters.

If you keep saying things are going to be bad, 
you have a good chance of being a prophet.

Originality is not seen in single words or even in sentences. 
Originality is the sum total of a man's thinking or his 
writing.

Our knowledge is a little island in a great ocean of 
nonknowledge.

The analysis of character is the highest human entertainment.

The wastebasket is a writer's best friend.

We have to believe in free-will. We've got no choice.

We know what a person thinks not when he tells us what 
he thinks, but by his actions.

We write not only for children but also for their parents. 
They, too, are serious children.

What nature delivers to us is never stale. 
Because what nature creates has eternity in it.

When you betray somebody else, you also betray yourself.

The very essence of literature is the war between emotion 
and intellect, between life and death. 
When literature becomes too intellectual - when it begins to ignore the passions, the emotions - it becomes sterile, silly, and actually without substance.

For me, it is far better to grasp the Universe as it really is 
than to persist in delusion, however satisfying and reassuring.

If you want to make an apple pie from scratch, 
you must first create the universe.

The brain is like a muscle. 
When it is in use we feel very good. 
Understanding is joyous.

The universe is not required to be in perfect harmony with 
human ambition.

One may walk over the highest mountain 
one step at a time.

Success can make you go one of two ways. 
It can make you a prima donna - 
or it can smooth the edges, take away the insecurities, 
let the nice things come out.

Wait for those unguarded moments. Relax the mood and, 
like the child dropping off to sleep, the subject often 
reveals his truest self.
Despite everything, I believe that people are really 
good at heart.

Everyone has inside of him a piece of good news. 
The good news is that you don't know how great you can be! 
How much you can love! What you can accomplish! 
And what your potential is!

How wonderful it is that nobody need wait a single moment before starting to improve the world.

I don't think of all the misery but of the beauty that 
still remains.

Laziness may appear attractive, 
but work gives satisfaction.

Parents can only give good advice or put them on the right paths, but the final forming of a person's character lies in their own hands.

The best remedy for those who are afraid, lonely or unhappy is to go outside, somewhere where they can be quiet, alone with the heavens, nature and God. 
Because only then does one feel that all is as it should be.

Think of all the beauty still left around you and be happy.

I must uphold my ideals, for perhaps the time will come 
when I shall be able to carry them out.

In Jewish history there are no coincidences.

Indifference, to me, is the epitome of evil.

Just as despair can come to one only from other human 
beings, hope, too, can be given to one only by other 
human beings.

I decided to devote my life to telling the story because 
I felt that having survived I owe something to the dead. 
And anyone who does not remember betrays them again.

Most people think that shadows follow, precede or surround beings or objects. 
The truth is that they also surround words, ideas, desires, deeds, impulses and memories.

I have not lost faith in God. 
I have moments of anger and protest. 
Sometimes I've been closer to Him for that reason.

I swore never to be silent whenever and wherever human beings endure suffering and humiliation. 
We must always take sides. 
Neutrality helps the oppressor, never the victim. 
Silence encourages the tormentor, never the tormented.

I do not recall a Jewish home without a book on the table.

Not to transmit an experience is to betray it.

The act of writing is for me often nothing more than the 
secret or concious desire to carve words on a tombstone: 
to the memory of a town forever vanished, to the memory 
of a childhood in exile, to the memory of all those I 
loved and who, before I could tell them I loved them, 
went away.

The opposite of love is not hate, it's indifference. 
The opposite of art is not ugliness, it's indifference. 
The opposite of faith is not heresy, it's indifference. 
And the opposite of life is not death, it's indifference.

There are victories of the soul and spirit. 
Sometimes, even if you lose, you win.

There may be times when we are powerless to prevent injustice, but there must never be a time when we fail to protest.

Ultimately, the only power to which man should aspire is 
that which he exercies over himself.

We have to go into the despair and go beyond it, 
by working and doing for somebody else, 
by using it for something else.

I love living. I have some problems with my life, 
but living is the best thing they've come up with so far.
If you can go through life without experiencing pain 
you probably haven
You must realize that honorary degrees are given generally to people whose SAT scores were too low to get them into schools the regular way. 
As a matter of fact, it was my SAT scores that led me 
into my present vocation in life,  comedy.

It may be said with a degree of assurance that not everything that meets the eye is as it appears.

There is a fifth dimension, beyond that which is known to man. 
It is a dimension as vast as space and as timeless as infinity. 
It is the middle ground between light and shadow, between science and superstition.

Everywhere in the world, music enhances a hall, 
with one exception: Carnegie Hall enhances the music.

Sports is the toy department of human life.

Life is 10 percent what you make it, 
and 90 percent how you take it.

Our attitudes control our lives. 
Attitudes are a secret power working twenty-four hours 
a day, for good or bad. It is of paramount importance 
that we know how to harness and control this great force.

Music can name the unnameable and communicate the unknowable.

To achieve great things, two things are needed; 
a plan, and not quite enough time.

You shall not close your hand against your needy kinsman.

Blessed be he who considers the poor:
the Lord will deliver him in the day of trouble.

Almsgiving delivers from death.

Who is kind to the poor lends to the Lord.

Water will quench a flame and almsgiving atones for sins.

Who gives charity makes a thankoffering.

If you have abundance, give alms accordingly to match;
if you have but a little, fear not to give accordingly.

Charity outweighs all other commandments.

Who gives charity in secret is greater than Moses.

To him that is eager to give, the Lord provides the means.

Great is charity because it brings Redemption nearer!

Even a poor man living on charity should give charity.

Who disregards charity is as one that serves idols.

Look, the Israelite people are much too many for us. 
Let us then deal shrewdly with them, lest they increase!

Come let us wipe them out as a nation,
let the name of Israel be remembered no more!
The last anti-Semite will die when the last Jew does.
Hatred of the Jew is not the outcome of anti-Semitic lie and calumny.
The contrary is true: the lie and calumny are the outcome of anti-Semitic sentiments.
I am sorry for the blindness of Jews who comfort themselves in vain in the evils that face them now, saying that anti-Semitism is ephemeral and will speedily pass away.  Abandon that hope!
No Jews felt more helpless in the face of anti-Semitism than those who had done everything deliberately and enthusiastically to adapt themselves to their environment.
Just as anti-Semitism drives the weak, the cowardly and the materialistic Jew into Christianity, so its pressure has strengthened my own Judaism powerfully within me.
We carry the germs of anti-Semitism in our own knapsacks.
When you teach your son Torah, teach it from a proof-read book!
Make books your friends!
Books are meant not to be shelved, but to be studied.
Admission by the defendant is worth a hundred witnesses.
It is a wise man that admits the truth.
You shall not commit adultery.

Who commits adultery has no heart.

The adulterer and the adulteress have surely broken all Ten Commandments.

A wise man hearkens to advice.

It is easier to give advice to others than to oneself.
Even the wisest of kings needs advice.
Nothing is given more lavishly than advice.
Woe to a man whose advocate turns into prosecutor!

A young tree bends, an old tree breaks.
It is not good for Man to be alone.

Even in Paradise, it is not good to be alone.
Who answers Amen is greater than the suppliant.
Who answers Amen with all his might, to him the gates of Paradise are open.
One does not try to placate an angry man.Even the Divine Presence is unimportant to an angry man.
A man's character is revealed in three things: in his cup, in his purse, and in his anger.
If a clever man is angry, his wisdom quits him.
Anger and wrath are angels of destruction.
An angry man is no better than a worshipper of idols.
A man should not eat before he feeds his livestock.

A soft answer turns away wrath.

To make an apt answer is joy to a man.

Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest you, too, be like him!

Be swift to hear, but patient in making reply!
Answer the first point first and the last point last.
The ants are not a mighty people, yet they make ready their food in the summer.

Anxiety in the heart weighs one down.
Anxiety will make a man old before his time.
Anxiety kills even the most heroic of heroes.
Better ten small worries than one big worry.
Accept the apology of one who offers it, be it truth or lie!
The apple does not fall far from the tree.
There is no art without craft.
To appraise an artist's achievement, there are thousands of words in our lexicon, but the most convincing is the little phrase 'We liked it!'
Make it your rule not to ask for yourself more than others give you!
If you do not aspire to great things, you will not achieve even little ones.
Will a man build the attic and then the house?
(First things first)
One does not send a dob as a gift to a bald man.
Can there be a banquet without preparations?A bargain has charm for the customer.
Do not bargain when you are out of cash!
Charm is deceitful and beauty vain.

Beauty may wither, but not grace.
Every beginning is difficult.
There is no beginning without an end.
One must behave before men as one must before God.
A Bible verse can never lose its literal sense, interpret it as you will.
Our Holy Scriptures are not only a religious book, but the foundation of our literature, our language and our history, and the sole source of them.
We have guarded the Book for thousands of years and it has guarded us.
No rain without thunders, no children without pangs.
To a hungry man everything bitter is sweet.

From a man's blessings one may know if he be a scholar or not.
You shall not put a stumbling-block before the blind.

Cursed be he that causes a blind man to stray!

Who is blind?  Who declines to see light.
Be not boastful in your speech!

The fruit of boasting is hatred.
The body is the instrument of the soul, to carry our all works.

What a wonderful machine Man's body is, a chemical laboratory and a power-station, every movement full of secrets and wonders!
Books were written not for fools but for the wise.
Never refuse to lend books to a man who has not the money to buy them for himself- - -if you are sure he will return them!
Books are pouches of wisdom embroidered with pearly words.
If people knew the troubles that authors experience, they would not laugh on finding some little error in their books.
What is written lasts for ever.Spend your money on expensive books and you will get their worth in golden knowledge.
No artistan without tools, nor any scholar without books.
The more books, the more wisdom.

No man is wise without books.

There is no book that has not something bad in it, none that has not something good.
A book gives knowledge, but it is life that gives understanding.
A book without a preface is like a body without a soul.
A good book is like a beautiful garden which you can carry in your hand.
Idleness causes boredom.
Until my creation I was unworthy and, now that I have been created, it is as though I still exist not.
The borrower is the slave of the lender.

Who borrows from Man is as one who borrows from God.
Do not bar your door to borrowers!
In the sweat of your brow you shall eat your bread.

Man does not live by bread alone.

Bread eaten in secret is tasty.

The man who tills his land will have bread in plenty.

Good bread cannot be baked out of bad wheat.
Do not take bribes, for they blind the clear-eyed and upset the pleas of the just!

How blindfolded are those who take bribes!
A bribe blinds the clever, and how much more so the fool!
Every bribery of speech is also forbidden.

When a bribe enters through the door, honesty will fly out of the window.
If the eyes of a bride are beautiful, no need to examine the rest.

Can there be a wedding without a bride!You cannot be a broom and remain clean.
Your elder brother should be respected like your father.
Do not grasp a fierce bull by the horns.
As busy as a Jew on Friday...
A man who does not want to buy should not say to a vendor: 'How much does this thing cost?'
Let bygones be bygones!

One man's candle is light for many.
To perish by the sword is worse than a natural death, to die of hunger worse still, and captivity worst of all.
Not the cardplayer pays the penalty but only the man who knows not how to play, yet does.
What is the point of being careful if you have nothing to lose?
Always keep some cash in hand!

It is only cats that 'meow' and wail, lions roar.

You don't put the cat in charge of the cream.
One of the rules of caution is not to be too cautious.
The cautious man will reach his goal.
Where no hedge is, the vineyard will be derelict, and where no wife is a man is waif and stray.
If you are twenty and still celibate, you will be thinking of sin all your days.
The bachelor has no nest and the benedict no rest.
If you see a graveyard before you, know that the town is nearby.
The side that changes an agreement will be the loser.
Who changes his place changes his luck.
If you behold a custom set by your forefathers, change it not!
If you change the language, you change the content.
Every change is for the better.
Who has two meals may accept nothing from a charity kitchen.Benevolence is kindlier than charity.
Who accepts alms he needs not will end by truly needing alms before he leaves this world.
If you see a man giving liberally, it means his wealth will grow; if you see one who shuns charity, it means his wealth will dwindle.

Nobody is ever impoverished through the giving of charity.
Had the people of the generation of the Flood and the people of Sodom given charity, they would not have been destroyed.
Charity lengthens one's days and years.
Because of charity the world abides.
No man was ever beggared by giving charity.
There is no religious command that has such instant effect as that concerning charity.
Alms for the needy cannot be deemed a dole.
Three things have charm: a place to its residents, a woman to her husband, a bargain to its customer, and some say, also, the Torah to its students.
Charm means more than beauty.
Wine is the cause of a great deal, and so is childhood.
Alas for that which goes and does not come back!  
And what is it?  Rabbi Chasda said: It is childhood.
Childhood is a kind of Paradise.
Children without childhood are a dark and fearsome spectacle.
A thing learnt in childhood is proven in old age.
In pain shall you bear children.

Even a child makes himself known by his acts.

A childless man is as good as dead.
Save you honor your parents, your children will not honor you.
The world exists only because of the innocent breath of schoolchildren.
Do not boast of your children when they are little,
because you never know what they will be like when grown-up!

Great is the pain of bringing up sons,
and greater of bringing up daughters.
In disputes between parents and children,
the children always get the upper hand.Little children are a headache and big ones a heartache.
Children grow up, parents grow old.
I have set before you life and death, blessing and curse;
therefore choose life, that you and your offspring may live.

Days are scrolls, you may write on them what you wish.
There is no real choice except by the working of the mind.

Whoso has no choice has neither good nor evil urge.
Who chooses too much should not fret at his lot.
Who circumcises his son is as though he offered all the sacrifices to the Lord.
If every one cleaned his own doorsteps,
the whole town would be clean.

If it be as clear to you as the light of morn, say it!
If it be not, say it not!
Let your words be simple, that they need no interpreting; and let their meaning be understood, that they need no proof.
Clarity is God's blessing.
Even the costliest clock
can show no more than sixty minutes to the hour.
A woman must not put on a man's apparel,
nor shall a man wear woman's clothing.

A man's honor is his garment.

A scholar should always don modest garb, not too costly or ornate, so that people should not stare at him,
and not too shabby, lest he be mocked.
A man's clothes are the index of his character.
Eat what you like but dress in the fashion!
Not every cloud will spit rain.
Small coins add up to large sums.
Separate not yourself from the community!

Who occupies himself with the needs of the community
is as though he occupies himself with Torah.
No community is wholly rich or wholly poor.
Woe to the man who says 'Peace be upon my soul!'
and does not join the community in its hour of trouble.
Who consorts with the unclean becomes himself unclean;
who consorts with clean is cleansed.
If one member of the company dies,
let the whole company take care!
Good company saves one from bad deeds.

It is not the compass that steers the ship to its landfall,
but the skipper who pilots it as his knowledge and experience tell him.
Even in His wrath the Lord keeps in mind compassion.
Do not compete just to do evil!
The force of a compromise is greater than of a judgment.
Compromise is best whenever practicability prevails.
Condemn not your fellow until you stand in his place!

Whoso confesses and forsakes his evil ways shall find mercy.

Any time of the day is good for confession.
Confession by the defendant is as good as a hundred witnesses.
Confidence is half the victory.
No compass will avail him that has no conscience.

Getting education is like getting measles; you have to go where measles is.
Look not on the jar but on its contents!
A contract is valid only for honest men.
Every controversy that is for God's sake
will be of lasting worth in the end.
Whoso argues merely for the sake of argument is a boor.
Generations come and generations go,
but contention lasts for ever.
A man is recognized by his conversation.

A convert is regarded as an infant new-born.

The stone which the builders rejected
has become the chief corner-stone.
The more counsel, the more understanding.
Valiant man, whose heart is like that of a lion!

Money lost, nothing lost.
Courage lost, everything lost.A warning to courts:
not to hear one litigant before the other comes.
The creation of something from nothing
is beyond the understanding of the created.
Who eats fat sleeps in the attic;
who eats greens may sleep on a dunghill unafraid.
The critic must be like a grinding-stone:
to grind and not to cut.

The test of democracy is freedom to criticize.
The critic proclaims: 'You should learn to write',
and the author answers: 'You should learn to read.'

To be a critic is easier than to be an author.
The crown of the wise is their wealth of wisdom.
There are three crowns: of Torah, of priesthood, and of royalty; but the crown of a good name surpasses all three.
He that is cruel troubles his own flesh.

Medicine is an important introduction to the virtues and the knowledge of God and for the attainment of real happiness.
Keeping you well is the basis of medicine.
If you swim against the current, you cannot stop:
you can go either forward or back.
Curses curse their utterers.

Who hears curses and keeps silent is called pious.
A causeless curse will rebound on its utterer in the end.

A man should never stand in a place of danger
and expect a miracle to happen to him.
We must magnify the light, not fight the darkness.
The darkest hour of night heralds break of dawn.
A daughter only tells her secrets to her mother.
It is not what a mother says of her daughter,
but what the neighbors say, that matters.
Let a father wed his daughter to a scholar,
even if he spend all his money on her dowry!
David, King of Israel, lives on for ever!
As earnestly as David prayed that he should not fall into Saul's hands, so prayed he that Saul fall not into his.
There can be no day without night:
they fulfill one another.No day is without its curse.
For on this day atonement shall be made for you to cleanse you from all your sins; you shall be clean before the Lord.
[Day of Atonement/Yom Kippur]

If a man says: I will sin and the Day of Atonement will atone for me, then that Day will not atone for him.
The Day of Atonement atones not for sins of man against man, until the sinner makes his peace with his victim.
Even if all other festivals vanish,
not so the Day of Atonement.
On the Day of Atonement the Israelites are as ministering angels.
Behold, the Day of the Lord cometh, cruel with wrath and fierce anger, to make the earth a desolation and to destroy its sinners from it.

For the day of the Lord is coming, it is near, a day of darkness and gloom.

For the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision.

I think the dead which are already gone [are]
more fortunate than the living who still breathe.

Whoso sees the dead and does not follow the bier is as one that scoffs at the poor.
Weep for the mourners and not for the dead,
for he is gone to his rest and we are left to lament.
A corpse does not feel the knife.
It is bounden duty to perform the will of a dying man.
Why do not the dead leave their graves?
They are afraid that others will take their place.
You shall not curse the deaf.

The blind cannot be a judge of color or the deaf of a song.
Parents shall not be put to death for their children,
nor children for their parents.

O that I had died instead of thee!
O Absalom my son, my son! [King David]

There is but one step between me and death.

Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die!

Lord, let me know my end, and what the measure of my days, that I may know how frail I am!
What man can live and never behold death?
The dust returns to the earth as it was,
and the spirit returns to God Who gave it.

The Lord gave and the Lord has taken away,
blessed be the name of the Lord.
One dies in perfect prosperity, wholly at ease and secure. . .Another in bitterness of soul, with never a taste of good.

Fear not death that is your doom;
remember all that went before and that will follow you.
As the Angel of Death is licensed to destroy, he does not trouble to distinguish between righteous and wicked.
No man tells lies at death's door.
Nobody mocks on his deathbed.
May my death atone for all my sins!
Many have drunk from this cup of mourning
and many will drink.
Does a man know what day his end will come?
Three things the Lord has kept from His people: the hour of death, the Day of Judgement and the reward of good deeds.
Moses died. . .who, then, will not?
Death is the only disaster.
All the care in the world will not help you or save you from death.
When you die, you will take your sins to the grave with you and leave your money behind to your kin.
Death is the end of all troubles.
O Death!  If men knew you, they would embrace you!
Death is no respecter of the great.
Rather death than dishonor.
Man cannot die twice or escape from dying once.
If the rich could be redeemed from death by charity, every pauper would be a millionaire.
Death does not knock at the door.
Better an easy death than a hard life.
Payment of debt is a religious commandment.
Not in every hour is a man privileged to pay his debt.
Go to bed withoiut dinner and rise without a debt!
There is no greater worry than debt.He who pays his debt adds to his capital.
I would rather the worst debtor were indebted to me than I to the best of creditors.
No man who practises deceit shall live within my house.
Deceit in words is worse than deceit in money.

The man capable of deceiving himself is much more dangerous than the man capable only of deceiving others.
The worse deceit is self-deceit.
Say little and do much!
Not the expounding of the Law is the important matter but the doing of it.
The really great deeds are done in secret.

It is easier to make outrageous demands of others than the simplest of yourself.
One should not ask about demons on the Sabbath.

It is not good for a man to be dependent on others' opinions.
A man should not put all his money in one corner.

You shall not desire your neighbor's house, his field, or his manservant or his maidservant, his ox or his ass, or anything that is your neighbor's.

A desire fulfilled is a tree of life.

The desire of the righteous is only good.

God created Man. . .and placed him in the power of his desire.
Desire is the enemy of sense.
The more unattainable a thing,
the greater the lusting for it.

It is easier to destroy than to build.
What is the meaning of 'you shall die and not live' 
(Second Kings 20:2)?  You shall die in this world and not live in the next.

To die now is no heroism; it is heroism to live.

No man dies before his time.
A man diligent in his business shall stand before kings.

Israel's salvation will come through prophets, not diplomats.It is a time of distress for Jacob,
yet he shall be saved out of it.

The School of Shammai says: A man may not divorce his wife unless he has found unchastity in her. . .The School of Hillel says: He may divorce her even if she spoiled a dish for him . . .Rabbi Akiva says: Even if he found a fairer woman. 
If a man divorces his first wife,
even the altar sheds tears for him.
Let no man marry a wife meaning to divorce her!
No man can divorce his friend's wife.
When a divorced man marries a divorced woman,
there are four opinions in the marriage-bed.
The man who divorces is not in the same situation as a woman divorced.
Just as one must respect the memory of one's widow,
so one must respect one's divorcee.

What is the meaning of 'Hide not yourself from your own flesh!' (Isaiah 58:7)?  It means: from your divorced wife.
Since it cannot be done, let it be!
Honor your physician according to your need of him!
For verily the Lord has created him; 
and from the Lord comes his wisdom.
Money may not be had for bread,
but it can be got for the doctor.
Do not ask the doctor, ask the patient!
It is forbidden to dwell in a town without a doctor.
Even the best of doctors deserves Purgatory.
Respect your doctor until you need him!

May God protect me from the half-wise and the half-healer.
If your time has not come,
even the doctor will not succeed in killing you.
A man may die even without a doctor.
When dogs howl, the Angel of Death is in town;
when they play, the prophet Elijah is.
You should not train a dog unless it is fastened by a chain.
One should not rear a vicious dog in one's home.

Who breeds an unruly dog in his house keeps kindness away.
You cannot make a dog into a lion.

The worst dog gets the best bone.There is nobody as wise as a whipped dog.
A dog knows exactly when its master is angry.

Many voices are not heard,
but the barking which accompanies them is.
A dog which is not in its home-town does not bark.
A door once shut will not easily open again.
A door not open to good deeds is open to the doctor.
Doubts made people wise.
When knowledge increases, doubt increases, too.
When an ox falls, his butchers are many.
[When a man is down, his enemies multiply.]
A pretty daughter is worth half the dowry.
As when a hungry man dreams he is eating and awakes with his hunger unsated or a thirsty man dreams he is drinking and wakes faint, with his thirst unquenched.

To fly away like a dream...

Most of the doings of Man in his waking are reflected in his slumbering thoughts.
Just as there can be no corn-stalks without straw,
so there can be no dreams without nonsense.
Who sees a well in his dream will see peace.
Every dream has a particle of prophecy in it.
Tell not your dream unto your enemy!
A man's every act begins with a dream and ends with one.
The dreams of one's youth are pleasant,
and one does not easily surrender them.
A good dream is a good gift.
No one drinks from a glass without examining it first.
A man should not drink from a glass and then give it to another.
Constant dripping wears away a stone.

Drop by drop the pitcher fills.

When a father is quick-tempered, his children are confused.From dust you are,
and to dust you shall return.

All go to one place:
all are from the dust and all turn to dust again.

There is one moral duty which your moralists underrate criminally- - - the duty to enjoy the world which God created.
The king of birds is the eagle.
If the eagle goes walking,
he will be trodden on like any worm.
Does not the ear test words as the palate tastes food?

Let your ears hear what your lips speak!

Walls have ears!

The ears are the gateway to the mind.
If you do not know what there is on earth,
do you expect to know what there is in heaven?
Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die.

Eating induces sleep.
There can be no joy without food and drink.
Till you are forty there is profit in eating,
from then on drinking prospers.
Talk not while you eat, lest windpipe anticipate gullet (and life be in danger)!
If, after eating, you do not walk four cubits before bed, your food will stay undigested.
Food to a man is like oil to a lamp.
Eat that you may live!
The less you eat, the less sick you will be.
The wise man says: I will eat to live, and the fool says: I will live to eat.
When young I ate so that I could write;
in old age I write so that I may eat.
The less you eat in the evening,
the sounder you will sleep.
Eating is the best of prayers.
Eating without drinking is like an undressed wound.
Bring up a child in the way he should go, and,
when he is old, he will not depart from it.
What is the true national education?  That which makes children absorb the national spirit unconsciously.
Education without vision is like a present without a future.
Education is an unfinished symphony.
Abhor not an Egyptian, for you were a stranger in his land!
[Passover/Pesach]

Every Jew should think of himself as having come out of Egypt.
[Passover/Pesach]
The elephant is frightened of the gnat.
An emergency alters the situation.
You do not take examples from a situation of emergency.
Are you for us or for our adversaries?

When a man's ways please Him, the Lord causes even his enemies to make peace with him.

Rejoice not when your enemy falls 
and let not your heart be glad when he stumbles!

If your enemy be hungry, give him bread to eat,
and if he be thirsty, water to drink!

Who is a hero?  The man that turns an enemy into a friend.
When you cannot cut off your enemy's hand,
kiss it and make friends with him!
No man is without enemies.
If God favors a man, even his enemy will run to his rescue.
Your enemy's enemy is your friend.
There is hope of healing every hatred,
save his that hates you out of envy.
Who can number the sands of the sea,
and the rain-drips, and the days of eternity?
All men are equal when they are underground.
The origin of Man is eternity and to eternity he will return.
Woe unto them that call evil good and good evil!

If you return evil for good,
evil will not depart from your house.

If the evil inclination tells you: Sin and God will pardon!- - -believe it not!
Evil desire tempts Man in this world,
then testifies against him in the world to come.
Make not the stranger king over you!
Evil inclination is sweet at the start
and bitter at the end.

Evil inclination at first behaves like a guest and then becomes the master.

What is the remedy for the evil inclination? Repentance!
Exile atones for everything.  Exile expiates sins.
Exile is like a plant without soil or water;
it withers without blossoming and it bears no fruit.
It is easier to take a Jew out of exile
than to take exile out of the Jew.
Poverty can do a great deal and so can exile - - -
so make allowances for the Jew when judging him.

A man may learn for seventy years and at the end die a fool.
Experience teaches us that experience does not.
They have eyes but see not.

Crooked parents can produce straight children.
Fear not failures!  This is all a man need know.
You shall have just balances, just weights, a just ephah and a just hin.

The righteous man shall live by his faith.

The exiles will be gathered in only at the price of faith.
There can be no faith without truth.
Faith is the essence of Torah.
There is nothing greater than faith.
Faith is wisdom and wisdom faith.
Who has no faith would be better off unborn.
Faith is the root and foundation of all holiness.
Faith is beyond intelligence and perception.
Faith is not a series of theorems but a way of life.
The end of faith is but the pursuit of good.
There are people whose fame goes before them - - -
and others that follow their fame.
Who loves his wife as himself and respects her more than himself, who guides his sons and daughters in the straight path and weds them timely, of him it is said:
[Job (Iyov) 5:24] 'You shall know that your tent is safe.'

Who discredits himself discredits his family.

No man can enjoy full happiness save with his wife and children.
Without family life no nation can be made.
If a man does not make himself a slave of the soil, 
he will not have bread enough.
A wise man incapable of resigning himself to his destiny is not wise.
If a man is destined to drown,
he will drown even in a spoonful of water.
The good deeds of parents are a happy augury for their children.
Honor your father - - - even if you have to go begging from door to door.

Fathers are a crown to their sons
and sons a crown to their sires.

Who ridicules his father is no better than a worshipper of idols.
One should respect one's father-in-law like one's own father.
Do not reproach your neighbor with a fault which is also yours.

Learning is the raising of character by the broadening of vision and the deeping of feeling.
We are blind to our own faults.

Whoso remembers the blemishes of others is the one himself blemished.

A favor done to the dead is an honest one.

A good man does his fellow a favor for no reason save that he is a good man.
If you do a man a favor,
do not regard it as a debt he must repay!
A man remembers better the good deeds and favors he did others than those that others did him.
Who is afright of leaves should not enter the wood.
Panic is like a whistle;
it whistles for trouble to come.
Fear and hope must not be overestimated.
The fear of the Lord is pure and abides for ever.Fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom.
Fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge.
Godfearingness will keep you far from sin.
Everything is in God's hands save fear of God.
Who has fear of God in him will not sin.
Do not make the fence more important than what it fences in!

No one lifts a finger on earth
unless it is so decreed in heaven.
There is no smoke without fire.

Better a sardine on the dish than a flounder in the sea.
Better a man that hides his folly
than one who hides his wisdom!

Foolish and frivolous things are easy to learn
and hard to forget.
Do not offer your food to one who has no appetite for it!
Food is not to be treated with scorn.
The complacency of fools is their undoing.
The way of the fool is right in his own eyes.
The simpleton believes everything.
Even a fool, if he keeps mum, is deemed wise.
A fool's tongue is his tragedy.

Like snow in summer or rain in harvest,
so honor is unfitting for fools.
Education is that which remains, when one has forgotten everything he learned in school.
A fool walks in darkness.
The fool always jumps in front.
A word to the wise is enough, but a fool needs a fist.
One fool breeds many.
If all men were fools,
there would be no one left to realize it.Do not forbid to others what you allow yourself.

If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, 
may my right hand forget its cunning!
A day's happiness makes misfortune forgotten and 
a day's misfortune is the oblivion of happiness.
The latter troubles make us forget the first.
That is the way of Man:
good times make him forget the bad and bad times the good.
Whoso asks forgiveness from a friend
should not plead more than thrice.
Without sin, there can be no forgiving.
Who chases two foxes at once will catch neither.

Who belittles his friend lacks wit.
Wealth makes many friends.
Faithful are the words of a friend;
but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful.

A faithful friend is a powerful defence;
he that has found such a one has found a treasure.
Forsake not an old friend, for the new one is not his peer!  A new friend is as new wine:  when it is old, you shall drink it with pleasure.
Do not cast out an old friend for a new one!
Whoso casts a stone at a bird will frighten it away;
and whoso abuses a friend will estrange affection.
A faithful friend is the medicine of life.
A friendless man is like a right hand without the left.
There is no treasure like friends.
Friends are of three kinds: one like food which one cannot do without; one like medicine which you may need now and then; and one like pestilence which no one needs at all.
The eye of the needle is not too narrow for two friends and the vastness of the world not enough for two enemies.
A man may hide himself from his enemies,
but not from his friends.
Be careful of two men and guard yourself against them:
the friend of your enemy and the enemy of your friend!

Better one old friend than ten new ones.

Your true friend is the one that knows your faults
and yet will love you.
Every good tree bears good fruit.
There is no fruit without a tree.
The reward for attending a funeral is limitless.
No billy-goat is made a gardener.
A gate once widened stays wide.
A generation goes and a generation comes,
but the earth stands for ever.
Happy the generation where the big listen to the little!
Every generation has its own needs and its own truths.
A truly generous man is he that always gives,
whether it be much or little, before he is asked.
Geniuses and their thoughts belong to the whole world.
Genius is required for the first step alone.
The rightous among the Gentiles
have a share in the world to come.
The ghetto outlook divided the universe into two:
this world for the Gentile and the next world for the Jew.
A gift given in secret averts wrath.
Press not your friend to dine with you when you know that he dines not, nor offer him many gifts when you know that he accepts them not!

To get a gift means to return one.
If you give your friend a gift, you should tell him.
Who welcomes his friend with a smile
is as one giving him the finest gifts in the world.
Gifts are debts.
The glory of Israel will not fail.

Because of gluttony, Esau sold his birthright.

The Lord is God of Justice.

Honor the Lord with your substance!
No wisdom, no understanding,
no counsel can avail against the Lord.
Wherever you go, God goes with you.

God takes nothing from the world
until He puts something else in its place.When Israel is in trouble, the Lord, as it were,
is troubled, too.
God is a true unity without any parts whatever.
The Creator, blessed be He, is He that knows,
and what is known and knowledge itself, all in one.
Where is God?  In the heart of every man that seeks Him.
God is everywhere and everything.
Better to get from God by the spoonful
than from Man by the bushel.
When God is with you, fear not foe!
The victims of gold are countless.
A golden key opens all gates.
Do not withhold good where it is due,
if it be in your power to bestow it!
If a man return evil for good,
evil will not depart from his home.

A good day makes us forget a bad one,
and the other way round.
Do as much good as you can and not as much ill as you can!
We only recognize the good from its opposite.
The good is only felt by its lack.
Attractive goods will be sold in no time.
Who makes others do good transcends the doers.
A religious act is more acceptable
when it is performed at the right time.
Good deeds are done by good people.

If a man meant to do a good deed and was forced to abandon his intention, he is deemed to have done it.
If you have done a good deed,
do not ask for its reward then and there!

If a man does not do good himself,
let him not rely on what his ancestors did!
For lack of wood the fire goes out,
and, where no whisperer is, quarrelling ceases.
As charcoal to hot embers and wood to fire,
so is a quarrelsome man for kindling strife.
If you hear an evil thing, bury it seven cubits deep!
If you believe all gossip around you, 
you will be left without one good friend.

The gossiper has no remedy but to ask for pardon from every one of whom he gossiped, and appease him.

A man without grace is as a tale out of season.
A graceful spot lends grace to those that dwell in it.
Grammar is to speech what salt is to food,
it should be in the right dose.
Who too much embraces, holds little.
We should be grateful to those we profit from.

Who eats even plain bread and salt with his friend
should be grateful to him.
If a great man said it, do not laugh at it!
Who woos greatness, greatness flees from;
who shuns it, greatness comes to woo.
Great the man whose sins are few.

Consider no man great because of wealth
or mean because of poverty!
A man is great if today he is greater than yesterday
and tomorrow than today.
None is more contemptible than the greedy man,
for he will even sell his soul.

Greed is a stumbling-block.

Be first in greeting every man!
Greet all men with a smiling face!
The host enters the house first and the guest follows,
but the guest is the first to leave.
The host enjoys the company of good guests.
If a guest enters your home, ask him no quesitons of the Torah unless you know that he can answer!

You will always be honored as a guest if you, too, can play the host.  The man invited to dinner is the man who can dine at home if he likes.
A rich guest is a burden - - - he demands so much!
It is human nature that a man cannot all of a sudden
give up all he has grown used to.
Virtues are acquired by habit.
Habit becomes second nature.Every habit which becomes second nature creates a tradition.
Let not your hand be open wide to take,
and clenched at a time of giving back!

Who raises his hand against a friend is wicked
even if he does not strike him.
A person's handwriting speaks for his intelligence.
Whatever has not happened in a thousand years
may happen the next moment.
A man should always be happy in his lot,
then will he be pleasant and so all his deeds.
Who is not happy in his lot is deemed a wretch.
Happiness is the one good thing that all long for.
The best way to gain happiness is not to look for it.
Happiness is wealth but wealth is not happiness.
Happiness will give you courage.
There are men who travel far to look for something that they can find in their own homes.

The greatest happiness is to do our duty,
and our foremost duty is to reach the place we can.

If your friend did you a little good, let it be large in your sight! If he did you much harm, think it a trifle!
Ten enemies cannot do a man the harm that he can do himself.
Every one who hurries hastens only to want.
Do you see a man hasty of speech?
There is more hope for a fool than for such.

The upshot of haste is remorse.

Hatred stirs up strife.
Unreasoning hatred is as bad as three sins:
idolatry, incest and bloodshed.

Who hates mankind is as one that hates the Lord God.
People hate whatever they do not understand.
Just as love blindfolds you and you see no faults,
so hate blindfolds you and you see no virtues.

Who hates his friend is like a shedder of blood.

Straightforwardness dispels hatred.Baseless hatred is a grave disease.
There is no greater evil than the hatred of Man.

The punishment of vain hatred is so harsh 
that it destroyed Jerusalem and the Temple.

Everything follows the head.
Better healthy and poor than rich and poorly.
There is no wealth like health.
If there is one thing superior to life, it is health.
A healthy man instinctively loves life.
Man looks to the outward show,
but the Lord looks into the heart.

Guard your heart with all vigilance,
for from it flow the springs of life!
The heart knows its own bitterness.
A merry heart makes a cheerful countenance.
The heart of the intelligent seeks understanding.
A cheerful heart is an unending banquet.
A man's heart changes his countenance for good or evil.
What is the good way to which a man may cleave?
Rabbi Eleazar said: 'A good heart.'
Words that come from the heart enter the heart.
No man knows what is in his friend's heart.
When a man is glad, it is his heart that first rejoices.

Heart and eyes are brokers of the body.

Everything follows the heart.
Words that do not come from the heart
will not enter the ear.
Eyesight is of no avail if the heart be blind.
Whose heart is narrow has a broad tongue.

If the heart is whole with God, everything is whole;
and if the heart lacks Him, all is lacking.The heart fathoms what the eye sees not
and the ear hears not.
There is nothing better than a good heart.
Man is in the image of a Temple,
and his heart is like the Holy of Holies.
Even God will not scorn a bruised and broken heart.
The heart sees better than the eye.
Without Hebrew there is no Torah,
and without Torah no Jew.
One people, one Land and one language.
For the Jews the advantage of Hebrew over other languages is that it is the natural garment of Judaism.
The golden key to Jewish education is the Hebrew language.

Who keeps quiet and does not call on his friends for help in trouble will be answerable for the consequences himself.
Wars are not won by heroes.
Who is a hero?  He that masters his lusts!
Who is the greatest of heroes?
He that makes his foe his friend.
A hero is only revealed in combat.
The wheel always comes full circle.
Just as the nation creates its own history, so, too,
is it created by it.
All ancient people praised the Golden Era of the past.
Only the Jews tell wonders of the golden Era still to come.
History, far from repeating itself,
occasionally produces startling surprises.
A small hole may mean the sinking of a big ship.
If a man sanctifies himself a little,
he will be sanctified much.
Whatever God created has a spark of sanctity in it.
Who has not savored sin
has not been qualified for saintliness.

Let your home be a meet-place for the Sages!

A home not made for springtime and for rainy days is none.

Happiness comes to a man
when he dwells beneath his own roof-tree.Each and every man is a king in his own home.

Any man that has a heart will long for homeland
more than for his sustenance.
Three things are best beloved by a man: 
homeland, children, and life.
Boys should be given bread, old men---oil,
babies---honey.
None of your honey, none of your sting!

A little bitterness will spoil a lot of honey.
Where there is honey, there are flies.
Before honor is humility.
Let your neighbor's honor be as dear to you as your own!

Who is honored?  He that honors mankind.
Respect him but suspect him!
It is not the place that honors its man,
but the man that honors his place.
Pursue honor and it will flee from you.
Who seeks honor is a fool.
Where there is no honor, neither is there disgrace.
Only the man who can defend his own honor
is honored by others.
Without hope, all activity will come to a standstill
and life be ended.
The man who has stopped hoping has stopped living.
Who has no hope in his heart is doomed to death.
I hope always, I long for much and expect little.
Let your home be wide open
and the needy be members of your household.

There used to be a very good custom in Jerusalem: a table-cloth was spread at the door - - - so long as it was in place, guests would enter the house.  When it was removed, they would not.
Hospitality matters more than being early in synagogue.
Who lodges a scholar in his home
is as one offering first-fruits [Shavuot] in the Temple.

By wisdom a house is built,
and by understanding established.A man first builds a house
and afterwards brings in the furniture.
[First things first.]
A house divided against itself will be destroyed at the end.
A house where one lives against one's will is no house.
The humble shall inherit the earth.
Even if you have all the other virtues,
without the virtue of humility you are lacking.
Humiliate yourself so that God may raise you up!
Humiliation is a stairway to honor.
The size of the cedar is measured by its shadow,
of a man by his humility.
Who is sated rejects honey,
but to a hungry man all that is bitter tastes sweet.
The begger is hungry and does not know it.
There is no worse death than death by hunger.,
And there was famine in the land---why so?
Because Israel and their judges did not judge truly.

Advice and words will not fill an empty belly.
The husband is master of the home. . .
if the wife is out-of-doors.

If I am not for myself, who is for me?
Ideas are duty-free.
A noble and central idea lends flavor and purpose
and a breath of life to every enterprise and act.

A great people cannot live without an ideal.
The more distant and loftier the ideal,
the greater its power to uplift the soul.
Idleness wreaks much mischief.
A drunkard who prays is as though he worships idols.
Who denies idolatry is as one that avows the Torah entire.
Nothing that has to do with idolatry
may be used for healing.

Slander is worse than idolatry.

Ignorance is swiftly contagious.There is no greater poverty than ignorance.
Beloved is Man who was created in the Divine image.
Who turns the important into the unimportant
will do the reverse as well.
You cannot expect to make bricks without straw.

To break the barrel and keep its wine.
[You cannot eat your cake and have it.]
There is only a single step between impurity and purity.
Independence is never given to a people, it has to be earned;  and, once earned, must be defended.
It is much harder to live a life of freedom and self-rule than to be ruled by others.
Without moral and intellectual independence,
there can be no national independence.
There is no mightier weapon than indifference,
you will never conquer it.
Unobtrusive influence has the greater value.

Ingathering of Exiles is as important
as the day when heaven and earth were created.
The Ingathering of Exiles
will be one of the greatest marvels.
Our task today is harder than Moses'; he had only to deliver Israel from one Egypt, we must deliver it from many.
Insulting one's senior is not the same
as insulting one's junior.
An intelligent man can be recognized by his expressions.
A good intention is accounted as a good deed.  If a man intends to perform a good deed but is prevented from doing so, he is to be treated as though he has done it.

Better a little with fear of the Lord,
than great treasure and turmoil.
Rather a little with purpose than a lot without.
Prayer or benediction without intention is like body without soul.
All Israel are comrades.
This nation is like the dust and like the stars:
when it sinks, it sinks to the dust,
and when it rises, it rises to the stars!
The nations wish to vex the Lord, but cannot.
So what do they do? They vex Israel.

One kingdom comes and another goes,
but Israel abices for ever.
The Jewish people is old in one way yet a babe in another.One of the virtues which distinguish the Jewish people
is that they honor those that love them.
Jealousy rots the bones.

Jealousy and anger will shorten your life.

Jealousy is hatred that none can heal.

Jealousy is the worst of evils,
because it hurts first one's friend.

If you are jealous of your friend,
he flourishes and you fall.
Jealousy has a thousand eyes,
yet none sees properly.

A man is bitter against those that envy him,
and is grieved if no one does.

One would not be jealous of one's friend
if one could be like him.

Pray for the peace of Jerusalem!
If I forget thee, O Jerusalem let my right hand wither!
Let my tongue cleave to my mouth if I remember thee not,
if I prize not Jerusalem above all my joys!
Why am I so famous? What am I doing right? 
What are the others doing wrong? 
Jerusalem which is bound firmly together (Psalms [Tehillim] 122:3) binds the Jews one to the other.

Eternity means Jerusalem.
Who saw not Jerusalem in its glory 
has never seen a beautiful city.
Ten measures of beauty were given the world,
nine were taken by Jerusalem and one by all the rest.
Jerusalem was destroyed just because school-children were kept from their classrooms.
There is no beauty like the beauty of Jerusalem.
Who prays in Jerusalem is as one praying before
the Throne of Glory, for the Gate of Heaven is there.
Without Jerusalem, the Land of Israel
is as a body without a soul.
No city in the world, not even Athens and Rome, ever played as great a role in the life of a nation for so long a time, as Jerusalem has done in the life of the Jewish people.
If a land has a soul,
then Jerusalem is the soul of the Land of Israel.
Jerusalem is the very heart of the Jewish State.
A stiff-necked people. . .
All Jews are responsible each for the other.All Jews are brothers.
One Jew sins and all Jews suffer.

The Jews are a sponge that soaks up all the afflictions and troubles on the face of the earth.
The Jew, by virtue of his origin, will always belong to Judaism, even if he or his ancestors changed their faith.
We accept this word 'Jew', ostensibly a term of abuse,
and shall turn it into a title.
What evil can a man yet speak against the Jews that our enemies have not already spoken?  What good can a man say of them that our champions have not yet said?
It is hard to be a Jew.
A Jew in exile, even if he wish to be a Jew, will be perforce a Gentile; a Jew in the Land of Israel, even if he wish to be a Gentile, is perforce a Jew.
Jewelry is only elegant if the wearer is.
Water wears stones away and jewels a woman's heart.

The Jewish State is an imperative for the world
and therefore will assuredly be established.
1948, a year of uniqueness and blessing, which will shine always upon the life of every one of us, and its light will blaze in Jewish history for ever and ever.
The highest test for the Jewish State will be in its spirit, in its loyalty to the great purposes of the Prophets as they envisioned for the end of days.
Serve the Lord with gladness!

Eat your bread with enjoyment,
and drink your wine with a merry heart!
Gladness of the heart is the life of man,
and his joyfulness lengthens his days.
Who lives happily does his Creator's will.
Judaism is an historical religion.
Unity of God, unity of the universe and unity of mankind are the spirit which moves Judaism.
Judaism is a nation and a creed at one and the same time.
You shall not render partial verdict; and do not favor the poor nor show deference to the rich; judge your neighbor fairly!
Partiality in judgement is not good.
A judge who takes bribes, perverting justice,
will not die of old age before first going blind.
A person is judged only by his acts at the time.
If you see a generation drowning in a sea of troubles,
go forth and consider what the judges of Israel do!A judge must have these seven virtues: wisdom, humility, fear of God, disdain of profit, love of truth, love of his fellow-men, and a good name.
Justice and only justice shall you follow.
Learn to do good; seek justice, school oppression; defend the fatherless, plead for the widow!
But let justice roll down like waters,
and righteousness like an everflowing stream!
Blessed are they that observe justice
and do righteousness at all times!
When justice is done,
it is joy to the righteous.
By three things is the world sustained:
justice, truth and peace.
When justice is not meted out on earth,
it is meted out in heaven.
Justice has but one form; injustice has many.
Rather suffer an injustice than commit one!

If a man means to kill you, stike first!
Let not kindness and truth forsake you!

By three things is the world sustained:
the Law, the Temple service and deeds of loving kindness.
The world exists for the sake of kindness.
When there is no truth, there is no kindness.
By justice a king makes the kingdom firm and strong.
Two kings cannot wear the one crown.
Know what is above you!
None is poor save him that lacks knowledge.
Knowledge acquired in childhood is not soon forgotten.
Knowledge is like the sun - - -it dispels all darkness.
It is better to know well than to know much.
A man's first knowledge should be to know himself.
Who wants to know all grows old before his time.
Knowledge is as good as currency.By the sweat of your brow shall you get bread to eat.
If you eat the fruit of the labor of your hands,
you will be happy and prosperous.
Sometimes work can change your luck.

The world is like a ladder, some come up, others go down.
The landlessness of the Jewish people
has been the source of its malady and tragedy.
The first condition a community should set, if it aspires to be a nation, is to own the land whereon it lives, and supply its own needs.
Land is the source of life and creation,
of culture and true independence.
A land flowing with milk and honey...
For the Lord your God is bringing you to a good land. . .
a land of wheat and barley, of vines, figs and pomegranates, a land of olive oil and of honey.
The air of Israel lends wisdom.
Dwell in Israel, even among a majority of idolaters,
rather than outside Israel, even among a majority of Jews!
Whoso lives in the Land of Israel is as one who has God.
Who walks four cubits in the Land of Israel is certain of the next world.
No spot in the Land of Israel is empty of God's Presence.

The Land of Israel is called life.
Living in the Land of Israel is worth all the other religious precepts put together.
All that dwell in the Land of Israel,
the Land makes atonement for their sins.
The Land of Israel is the House of God.
The Land of Israel needs a people
and the people of Israel needs a Land.
A Land whose every stone symbolizes past effort and hope to come...
Nowhere in the world can the Jew savor the taste of Homeland save in the Land of Israel.
Who spreads an evil report of the Land of Israel,
even if it be true, is a renegade.

The Land made us a people.
The language of truth will endure for ever.
The loftier the thought, the finer the language.The language of man is not only a means to express ideas but in itself a creation.

Language is the key to the nation.

A fool raises his voice in laughter,
a wise man smiles in silence.
Weep before God and laugh before people!
The law of the land prevails.
If we were all righteous,
we would need no law of torts.
There are a thousand ways to do injustice
without breaking a single law.
The moral laws are much more eminent and elevated
han are the causal.
A law must have a moral basis so that there is an inner compelling urge for every citizen to obey.
Repentance and good deeds are a man's best lawyer.
Go to the ant, you sluggard,
consider her ways and be wise!
Slothfulness casts you into deep slumber.
Who is the laziest man on earth?  The man too lazy to make friends; but even lazier [is] the man who made friends and lost them.
The lazy are generally the busiest people in the world.
When you send a lazy man on an errand,
eventually you will have to go yourself.
Lazy by nature but quick to advise.
No leader should be set over the community
without first consulting it.

When a man is made leader of the community,
he becomes rich.

As the generation, so the leader;
as the leader, so the generation.

Once a man is appointed leader of a community,
he must be deemed mightiest of the mighty.

Most often, the man who becomes leader is not the one that knows the way but the one who behaves as if he does.

Legends charm the heart.
One should not try to find any logic in a legend.
The legends of a nation reveal its character to us more clearly than its acts and accidents.
Legend always contains a grain of law.Through legend one may penetrate the Jewish nation's living home and behold its inward parts.

Lend a man money when he needs it
and pay back a loan yourself in time!
Who lends money to the needy free of interest
is better than the giver of alms.
There is no single letter in the Scriptures
whereon a thousand secrets do not hang.
Keep far from a lie!
Rather a poor man than a liar.

The punishment of a liar is that, even when he speaks the truth, none believe him.

All lies are forbidden,
but you may lie for the sake of peace.
To correct a single lie,
one has to tell several.

One lie begets another.

Even if a lie is crippled, it will run like a champion;
yet justice will overtake it at the end.
Choose life!
Man who is merely a breath, whose life fades like a passing shadow.
All men have the one entrance into life and the one exit.
Your own life must be considered before your friend's.
Whoever causes the loss of a single soul is as though he caused the loss of a world entire, and whoever saves one is as though he saved a universe.
A long life, a short life - - -what matters it?
What is important is that it be a life of beauty.
Life is stronger than any destruction of it.
Charity knows neither race nor creed.
Light is perceived only out of darkness.
Three are rebels against light:
a thief, an adulterer and a bat.
We must enhance the light, not fight the darkness.
When a part of your body aches and causes you pain,
you feel intense hatred towards it.
The wolf shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard lie down with the kid. . .and the lion eat straw like the ox.
The wicked will be ensnared by his own lips.Where can you find a better place to spend the dangerous age than in literature?
Literature is the safest key to a nation's treasure.

A people's only national literature is the one written in its national language.
There can be no creative national literature without ancient traditions.

To earn a living is as hard as the parting of the Red Sea.
Logic is the scales of all science.
When a sharp sword is at his throat,
a man does not listen to sense or logic.
A man is lonely until he finds himself.
If you see your fellow's ox or sheep straying, do not ignore it; you must take it back to your fellow.
Love thy neighbor as thyself!
Many waters cannot quench love, neither can floods drown it.
Who acts from love is greater than who acts from fear.
All that you do, do only out of love!
A man has three that love him:
his children, his money and his good deeds.
Love blinds the eyes to faults,
and hatred blinds them to virtues.

Love will cloud the mind's eye.
Love that springs from nature is deemed strong love.
Love is the greatest enjoyment of mankind.
There is no love without total faith.
True love is like a man climbing a ladder set upon the earth and its top reaches to heaven.
To love humanity is an easy thing, 
what is difficult is to love human beings.
The desire of procreation is itself blind and needs the faithful guide, which is love.
When a man loves a woman and her longing glows back, the world becomes a Paradise.
There can be lunacy without love,
but is there any great love without a little lunacy?
Busy yourself as much as possible with the study of divine things, not to know them merely, but to do them; and when you close the book, look round you, look within you, to see if your hand can translate into deed something you have learned.Even the luckless need some luck.
When fortune favors you,
you will find every man your faithful friend.
Better an ounce of luck than a pound of gold.
Do not side with the majority to do wrong!
When a life is at stake,
one must not follow the majority.
Follow not the majority in the wrong way,
because the many are not always wise!
Know whence you came and whither you go!
Mankind are like plants of the field,
some blossom, some wither.
The creation of a single man is as weighty a thing as the creation of the whole universe.
Man resembles the world and is called a little world,
a microcosm, a world in itself.
Man is recognized rather by his little acts
than by his big ones.
There is no limit to the contents that can be poured into the vessel called man.

The smaller the man,
the easier it is for him to believe in his own greatness.
Interrupt not the speech of your friend before he finish!
My son, answer not before you hear,
nor speak in the midst of converse!
It is follly to listen at the door,
and the clever man regards this as a very shameful thing.
The junior may not sit down until the senior says:
Be seated!
Good manners mean more than learning.
If you see a generation of lying ways,
know that the rulers provoke it!
Who wishes to be friendly with people
should cling to good manners.
More than man wishes to marry,
woman wishes to wed.

If a man and wife are worthy, the Divine Presence is with them; if unworthy, fire consumes them.
Marriages are made in heaven.

Who marries a worthy wife is kissed by Elijah
and loved by the Holy One.
A woman asked Rabbi Yossi ben Chalafta: 'How many days did it take the Lord to create the world?'
He answered:  'Six.'  'And, since then, what has He been doing?'  The reply came: 'Making marriages.'
A young maid to an old man
is like a hard nut to a bad tooth.
One, two, three, four,
Marry your girl at the early score!
Do not philander, do not delay,
Or somebody else will snatch her away!

What is the proper age for wedlock?  When you are young, it is too soon, and when you are old, too late.
When betrothal is brief, the marriage lasts long.
There never was a wedding without a worry.
Who depends on eating at his friend's table will go hungry.
Answer a fool according to his folly!
Because you drowned others,
others will drown you.
The recompense of virtue is virtue,
and sin's reward is sin.
As he did, so shall it be done unto him.
God waits a long time,
but he pays with interest in the end.
Eat greens in peace, not meat in peril!
Medicaments have multiplied just as diseases have.
The memory of the righteous is a blessing.
Memory cannot recall more than what was forgotten.
Memory sustains man in the world of life.
Not every one with a fabulous memory is clever.
Not everything is lost
if its memory still lingers in my heart.
The merciful man does his own soul good.
If there is no truth, there is no mercy.
The Messiah, son of David, will only come in a generation that is neither wholly righteous nor wholly wrong.
A man must walk in the middle of the path and stray neither to this side nor that.
[Choose the golden mean!]
An intelligent mind will seek knowledge.
As, in water, face mirrors face,
so the mind of man mirrors him.
The greatest thief is the one who steals the mind of men.When a man is at ease, so is his mind.
It is the mind that behonds, not the eyes.
God has created nothing more distinguished than the mind.
Blessed be the Lord, the God of Israel,
Who alone does wondrous things.
Whoever sees a place where miracles happened to Israel must say: Blessed be He Who worked wonders for our ancestors in this place!
One must not rely on miracles happening.
Stand not in a place of danger.
saying, 'a miracle may happen to me!'
The man to whom a miracle happens
is not aware of it himself.
Just as the world cannot exist without livelihood,
so it cannot be without miracles and wonders.
Every day many a miracle happens to the sons of Israel;
were it not for God's miracles, 
we should---Heaven forbid!---have perished long ago.
He who depends on a miracle will experience none.
It is not the believer, but the non-believer, who asks for a miracle and depends on it.
A miracle to one is often a misfortune to another.
Two things will never mix: a good heart and stinginess.
But now, when shall I provide for my own household also?

A miser is a faithful watch-dog,
guarding the wealth of his heirs.
Woe to him that lives as a pauper to die rich!
Woe to him that toils all his life
to comfort his heirs by his death!
The miser pays double in the end.
One misfortune invites another.
Anyone on whom misfortune falls imagines that the whole world is in darkness.
If you are always afraid of misfortune,
you will miss happiness.
An intelligent man is like a robust oak,
he rides over his misfortune.
Where a mistake has crept in, it stays.
Better to err than wittingly to sin.Do not scoff at your fellow's error!

Who thinks little will err much.

Some people confess their mistakes to conceal their crimes.
It is an honor to a man to admit his error.

There is no greater danger to a new truth than an old error.
Even if you are perfect in all virtues,
if you lack modesty, you are wanting.
Modesty is the greatest virtue in the world.
Modesty is a great thing,
for Moses our Leader was endowed with it.

The modesty of the great is the greatest modesty.
Money drives its owner frantic.
Who loves money will never be content with it.
Who has the cash in his hand has the upper hand.
Who wishes to become wise should study monetary laws.
A man is more concerned about the loss of his money than of his days;
yet his money does not help and his days will never return.
Money is a good and handsome thing,
it is men who have spoilt it.

If you have the money, your opinion is accepted.
Money attracts money.
Moral preachings will avail nothing to the unintelligent.
There is no finer heritage than morality.
A moral man is not yet a good man
but one who is seeking the good.
We have books on morality enough and to spare,
but so few men of morals.

From the morning one can judge how the whole day will be.

As the mother, so her daughter

Despise not your mother, when she is old!
Have you ever heard of a son rejecting his mother
beause he found a nicer one?Who of you can know the heart of a mother
with all its secret afflictions?

Adam was the luckiest of men:
he had no mother-in-law.
A time to mourn and a time to dance.
Do not be joyful almong the mourners!
Who guards his mouth preserves his life.
Who vexes himself more than is customary about the way of the world is a fool.
A fool's mouth is his ruin
and his lips are a snare to himself.

A flattering mouth works havoc.

The heart of the fools is in their mouth,
but the mouth of the wise is in their heart.
A person must never open his mouth to Satan.
[Guard your tongue!]

You shall not murder!
Pry not into what is hidden from you!
As his name, so the man.

The name of the wicked will rot.
A good name is more desirable than great riches, a good reputation than silver and gold.

Happy he that grew up with a good name
and departed this world with one.
Every man has three names: one that his father and mother gave him, one that others call him and one in the scroll of his creation.
No father should give his son the name of a wicked man.
A good name is the proudest of pedigrees.
His name is the very soul of a man.

No nation can be redeemed save by itself.
No individual can be a true man
so long as his nation is a wild beast.
The national ego is the father of the personal.

Preservation of the special character of nations
is essential for progress.
Nature creates nothing without a purpose.There does not exist a vacuum in nature.
The nature of the community is but the sum-total of what their is in the individuals.
Not everything near is really so,
nor everything far really distant.

Necessity is neither to be praised nor belittled.
Necessity will point the way even to the blind.
The greater your need, the nearer is God.
Love thy neighbor as thyself!
Shun a bad neighbor!
What is the good way whereto a man whould cleave?---
A good neighbor.
Never enter a neighbor's house unwarned.
What is the worst sickness?
A bad neighbor.
When the nerves yell, the wit is silenced.
You shall have to clear out the old
to make room for the new.
The night was made that we might ponder on what we did by day.
Do not accustom your lips to utter oaths!
The man that swears many oaths will be filled with iniquity.
Who is wont to take false oaths is like an idolater.

If you steal, you eventually will perjure yourself.
A false oath is desecration of the Holy Name.

For him that talks obscenely hell will be deepened.

Sometimes it is not the office that makes the man
but the man that makes the office.
You shall rise before the aged
and show deference to the old.
Abandon me not when I grow old!
Wisdom is an attribue of age.
Shame not the old: we shall all be numbered among them.Long experience is the crown of the aged.
Untutored old men---the older they get, the greater their folly; scholarly old men, the older they get, the steadier their mind.
As men age, their opinions change.

Old age is the mother of forgetfulness.
Who respects the elderly is as if he respects the Lord.
Old age, like poverty, although no disgrace, is not a great honor either.  We all expect it and we all want to look young.
When does a man begin to feel that old age seized him?  When he suddenly sees a new generation that conquers the field of labor and does the work differently from his practice.
Who overcomes his troubles in a hundred years will live long.
As all faces of people are unlike, so too their opinions.

A man should always be in the habit of saying:
Whatever God did, He did for the best.
It is all for the best.
Who takes a wife late leaves orphans early.

When an orphan smiles, heaven and earth smile with him.
Grasp not the horns of a powerful ox!
For everything that the Lord created, He created its opposite:  He made Heaven and He made Hell.
The ways of Paradise are hard and the ways of Hell easy.

In this world, too, one can taste the joys of Paradise.
For the pious, Paradise exists everywhere.
You cannot turn Hell into Heaven,
but how easy it is to turn Paradise into Purgatory!
The way from Paradise to Hell is very short,
the way back: impossible.

These are things whose fruits a man enjoys in this world while the capital is laid up for him in the world to come: honoring his father and mother.
Whether you have money or not, you should respect your father and mother---
even if you have to go begging from door to door.
What God is to the world, parents are to their children.
By grace of children parents win respect.
If you do not respect your parents,
your children will not respect you.There is one thing one cannot buy---one's parents.
There is one thing a man cannot change---his parents.
The dish of two partners is neither hot nor cold.
[Too many cooks spoil the broth.
A shared kettle never boils.]

When partners multiply, so do arguments.
If you cannot climb up and over, go down and under!
Who cries over the past is offering a vain prayer.
No individual can be constructed entire
without a link with the past.
The past lays a railroad track for the future.
Research into the past, as an aim in itself,
without the 'present', is not worth a bean.

The future of a nation is in its past.
One present moment is worth more than seven months gone by.
Who is slow to anger has great understanding,
who has a hasty temper exalts folly.

Good sense makes a man slow to anger.
With patience, a ruler may be won over.
The patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit.
From patience will come forth peace.
Whoso is patient will be master.
Patience can and will always be based on reciprocity.
Patience is already half way to knowledge.
It is good to die for our country.
The work of righteousness shall be peace.
There is no peace, says the Lord, unto the wicked.
I will make a covenant of peace with them;
it will be an everlasting peace.
The Lord will bless His people with peace.
There is a future for the man of peace.Scholars multiply peace on earth.
A wifeless Jew has no peace in life.
So great is peace that, even if Israel worship idols yet peace reigns among them, God says: I cannot, as it were, wield power over them, because peace prevails there.

So great is peace that God's name is peace ---
'Shalom', that all the blessings are held within it.

Benedictions are of no avail if peace is not with them.

Here is food and here is drink---
but, if there is no peace, there is nothing.
Wherever peace reigns, you need no courts.
One may flatter the wicked in this world
for the sake of peace.
Peace without truth is a false one.
Peace is so mighty that, even if a person has performed some good deeds but not made peace, he is deemed to have done naught.
Peace means more than truth.
If you cannot find peace within yourself,
it profits not to seek it elsewhere.

Peace cannot be kept by force,
but through understanding.
Wisdom is the finest pedigree.
A man's intelligence is beneath the point of a pen.
The pen's mistake passes not away,
it is an everlasting shame.
In for a penny, in for a pound.
Oil and perfume gladden the heart.
God seeks out the persecuted.
The more schooling, the more wisdom.
Perseverance is the source of intelligence and wisdom.
Man is likened unto a bird.
A bird can fly upward and upward
so long as it moves its wings.
There is no remedy for a man who starts looking upon life with unrelieved pessimism.
The pious man is most perfect in virtues and wisdom.
Who pities not mankind, be it known that he is not the seed of our Father Abraham!
Who can ask for mercy for his friend, and does not,
is a sinner.
Who shows pity for humankind,
the Heavens will pity in turn.

If you do not pity your friend,
nobody will pity you.
Pity the honorable man despised,
the rich man beggared and the wise man fallen among fools!
The feeling of pity alone is enough
to make Man choose the good and reject the bad.

Pity is a great and strong foundation
for improvement of character.
Pity is the root of all creation.
The highest task of education is training for duty.
A person should be grateful to a place
which causes him enjoyment.

A time to plant and a time to pluck.
Who pleads after the verdict pleads nothing.
[It's too late to plead once a sentence is pronounced.]

An everlasting pleasure becomes a habit and not a pleasure.
[You can have too much of a good thing.]
The best of poems is that which men of intelligence are content with and the people understand.
If your brother becomes poor, you shall maintain him.
Who mocks the poor insults his Maker; he who rejoices at their calamity will not go unpunished.

Who closes his ears to the cry of the poor
will himself cry out and not be heard.
Better a pauper sound and sober
than a rich man sick and sorry.
The poor of your own town should be preferred
to those of another.
If a poor man bakes a cake,
any man that comes and snatches it from him is held wicked.
Help the poor, for you may not know what the day will bring forth, and the wheel revolves!
If a poor man comes to you in the morning,
give him alms, and if in the evening, give him again!

If you have no means to give to the poor,
comfort him with kind words!

A poor man, if content, is rich!
When is a poor man glad?
When he loses something and finds it again.
Poverty is no disgrace,
but you cannot be proud of it.
One postponement leads to another.

The worst of mankind is
he whose power of speech exceeds his power of thought.

Praising the wicked is wrong.

When people praise you for virtues you have not,
take heed and rejoice not!
A man is praised upon his entry according to his attire,
upon his departure according to his wit.
It is good to give thanks unto the Lord,
to sing praises to Thy name, O Most High.
None should stand up to pray save in sober mood;
the pious men of old used to wait an hour before they said their prayer, that they might direct their heart toward God.
A man must bless God for the evil,
just as he blesses Him for the good.
One should not pray in levity and jest,
but in gravity and the joy of doing good.
If a man sees that his prayer was not granted,
let him pray again!
Prayer is greater than sacrifices.
Prayer is the service of the heart.
The prayer of the sick for himself
will avail more than any other.

All are equal in prayer before the Lord.

The gates of prayer are never closed.

Any study of the Torah and any prayer unaccompanied by good deeds and repentance void the Torah and make the prayer unwanted.
Prayer without intention is like a body without a soul.
Better prayer without synagogue
than synagogue without prayer.
If a man preach in public lessons of the Torah that do not please his hearers, it were better not to preach them.
To practise (Not to practise) what one teaches.

Who keeps a commandment keeps his life.
Who performs one precept gains one advocate for himself.
Just as precepts do not cancel one another out,
so with bans.
If a man break a light precept,
he will end by breaking a grave one.
The most important purpose of the precept
is to straighten the heart.When the president enters,
all rise and none sits until he says: 'Be seated!'
Of all the evils of our generation,
I do not know one that obstructs the moral development of mankind more than the Press.
Pride goes before destruction,
and a haughty spirit before a fall.

A man's pride will bring him low.
There is no worse pride than his who flaunts his modesty.

Do what you have promised!

The onus of proof is on the plaintiff.
Proof cannot be got from fools.
Things well-known need no proof.
To prophesy the future is not diffcult,
but it is dangerous.
Israel's salvation will come through prophets
and not through diplomats.
A prosecutor cannot become counsel for the defense.
Who can protest against a wrong and does not,
will be punished for it.
Pleasant words are like honeycombs---
sweetness to soul and health to body.
A parable without a moral is like a legless body.
Through a proverb one delves deeply into things.
Sayings of the wise are like a tonic wine,
pleasure to the spirit and cure to the flesh.
The pointed proverb is like a diamond,
it sends out light and it also cuts.
The philosophy of a nation is to be found
in its proverbs at times.

You do not punish without warning first.
Just as the reward is great, so is the punishment.
The righteous are punished even for light sins
and the wicked only for serious ones.
Punishment of the sinner is not to be treated as revenge.

Let the honor of your disciple be dear to you as your own!

No master is jealous of his pupil.Quarrel not with a man without reason,
when he has done you no harm!

It is an honor for a man to cease from strife.
Quarrel not with a great man, lest you be compelled to give way, or with a stronger, lest you fall into his hands.
Keep far from quarrel and you will escape sin!

You can stop a quarrel before it starts!
Who quarrels with his teacher
might as well quarrel with the Holy Presence.
Neither good nor peace comes of quarrelling;
Cain killed his brother in a quarrel.

If two did not like to, one would not quarrel.
[It takes two to make a quarrel.]
The question put by a wise man is half the answer.
The finest quality of Man is asking questions.
When you are asked a question and do not know what to answer, be not ashamed to say: 'I know not!'
A single fool may ask questions
which even a thousand Sages cannot answer.
A man's wit can be judged better by his questions
than by his answers.
Every 'why' invites a 'because'.
A quotation at the right moment
is like bread to the hungry.
Where God is blasphemed, no respect is due to the Rabbi.

The Rabbi is just the man who knows the Torah;
he is not the Torah itself.
What is our prayer for rain?  'We thank You for each drop that You have let fall.'
Three keys are kept in God's hands and never delivered to an angel: one of them is the key to rain.
Rain is the husband of the earth.
Three things were given as a gift to the world:
the Torah, the stars and rain.

On what day is all the world equal?  When rain falls!
Look upon the rainbow and bless its Maker!
To ransom prisoners is a splendid act of piety.
Rebuke not a scorner, lest he hate you.
Rebuke a wise man and he will love you!Who hates reproof is stupid.
A rebuke goes deeper into a man of understanding
than a hundred flailings into a fool.
Better a public scolding than love unrevealed.
First investigate, then rebuke!

Who accepts reproof is vouchsafed a blessing.

Rebuke will be of no avail to the stiff-necked.
Two dogs were bad friends.  One day the wolf attacked one of them.  Quoth the other: 'If I do not help him today, the wolf will destroy him and tomorrow attack me.'  So they joined forces and killed the wolf.
A sick man, when he recovers from an illness,
returns to the days of his youth.
Great is almsgiving (repentance)
for it brings Redemption nearer.
Redeem us speedily for the sake of Your name!
Redemption, like a livelihood, must be earned each day.

Redemption only comes to our nation bit by bit.
A generation is only redeemed by grace of the righteous women in it.
Israel will not be redeemed
until they are united all into a single grouping.
The Redemption to come will be as great a marvel
as Creation.
Those who wish it will be redeemed.
Say not: 'Tomorrow we shall be redeemed',
lest you may miss the moment now.
No nation is redeemed of its troubles
unless it redeems itself by its own powers.
It cannot be true religion if it loves lucre (money).
The State binds and compels, religion teaches and persuades; the State gives laws, religion gives commandments.
What lover of truth can pride himself that he found his faith free of harmful man-made rules.
Just as faith, in its highest sense, is what unites people, so religion is what divides them.

Who professes to reform religion is in my eyes
as if he sought to cool fire.
A religion should be judged by its preachings and its best preachers, not by the many or few hypocrites who profess it.
There may be men whose faith preceded their religion, that is, they come to religion from faith.  With others religion was first, so that their faith is a dictate of it.Let the wicked forwake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts;  let him return to the Lord that He may have mercy!
Amend your ways and your doings!
Rend your hearts and not your garments;
return to the Lord, for He is gracious and merciful!
While sinning, repent!
A man that cleanses himself after touching a corpse, and then touches it again, of what avail will his cleaning be?  So with a man who fasts for his sins and then repeats them.
Repent the day before you die [which means every day, for who knows the day of his death].

Better an hour of repentance and good deeds in this world than a lifetime in the world to come.
Who says, 'I shall sin and repent, I shall sin and repent', repentance will not be vouchsafed him.
Once a man repents, stop reminding him of what he did!
The purpose of wisdom is repentance and good deeds.

Great is repentance, for it brings healing to the world.
Where the contrite stand, not even the most righteous may.
Who does a thing and repents is at once forgiven.
Great is repentance, for it reaches the Throne of Glory;...
for it brings Redemption;...for it lengthens a man's life.
Happy he who repents while still in his vigorous manhood.
The gates of repentance are always open.
If a man repent of his misdeeds, then revert to wrongdoing, it is no repentance.
Repentance is valued above sacrifices [Pesikta R.]...
above prayer.
Repentance for sinners is like medicine for maladies.
To know that a thing is bad is half way to repentance.
Half repentance does not achieve even half its purpose.
Teach your children letters, that they may have understanding all their life, reading unceasingly the law of God.
A teacher who surrenders the respect due to him
is no longer respected.
Thou shalt teach them [commandments] diligently to your children.
When a fire is started and spreads to thorns, consuming, in the end, standing or growing grain, who started it must make requital.If one man sins,
will You be wroth with all the congregation?

The son shall not suffer for the iniquity of the father, or the father for the iniquity of the son; the righteousness of the righteous shall be upon himself, and the wickedness of the wicked upon him.

I am responsible for any damage caused by my charge.
A man is always responsible, whether his act is intentional or inadvertent, whether he is awake or asleep.
One is not held responsible when in distress, for words uttered in grief.

This said the Lord God: Behold I will open your graves, and raise you from your graves, O My people, and I will bring you home into the Land of Israel...and I will put My spirit within you and you shall live.

Many of them that live in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life.
Three keys are in God's hands, never delivered to an angel: one is of the resurrection of the dead.
Retreat heralds defeat.
To start a revolution is not hard; to end it well and launch a peaceful economy is beyond our powers.

Be not like slaves that minister to the master for the sake of a reward, but like those that minister to him seeking none!
No man is rewarded because God owes it to him,
but God grants reward out of His grace.
Like the partridge that gathers a brood she did not hatch is the man that amasses wealth but not of right.
He piles up riches and knows not who will gather them.
Riches profit naught in the day of wrath.
Who trusts in his riches shall fall.
A rich man has many friends.
Do not toil to acquire wealth, be wise enough to desist; when your eyes light upon it, it is gone, for suddenly it sprouts wings.
Who hastens to be rich will not go unpunished.
Riches are kept by their owner to his own hurt.
The more possessions, the more concern.
Who is rich?  He that rejoices in his portion.
Who is rich?  The man with a wife of pleasant deeds. . .with contentment in his riches.
Riches will fly away like a bird.
A rich man may fall seven times and rise again,
but the poor falls once only---and forever.I have lost a dear friend.  Did he die?
No, he became rich.
Trust not in your wealth until the day of your death.
The righteous man perishes and no one lays it to heart.
A man should believe in God through faith, not because of miracles.
The mouth of the righteous is a fountain of wisdom.
The righteous shall flourish like a palm-tree:
he shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon. 
The righteous is rescued from trouble;
the wicked falls into it instead.
The root of the righteous will never be shaken.
A righteous man may fall seven times yet will rise again.
In my life of vanity I have seen everything:
the righteous man perishing in righteousness,
and the wicked man living long in his evil-doing.
For there is not a righteous man upon the earth,
that does good and sins not.
The righteous say little and do much.
Even in the time of His anger,
God remembers the righteous.
The righteous are greater in death than in life.
This world would have been created even for one righteous man.
The Lord saw that the righteous are few and so dispersed them through all the generations.
No righteous man passes away before one like him is created.
When a righteous man is born, it is a boon to the world;
when one dies it is a bane.
The righteous need no monuments:
their words are their remembrance, their acts remain their shrines.

The righteous are masters of their desires
and the wicked---slaves to them.

As the stars do not quarrel among themselves, so,too,
with the righteous.

The righteous man is like a palm-tree---as the shade of a palm is cast far, so the reward of the righteous will be distant, in the world to come.

No man can be called righteous if he is not also good.
If a person wishes to become a priest or a Levite, he cannot; but even a Gentile can be righteous.
Whoso hates the righteous is as though he hated God.If we were all righteous, we should need no law or torts.
When scholars vie, wisdom mounts.
All streams run to the sea, but the sea is never full.

Stand not up against a river in its flood!
[Swim with the stream!]
Every river has its own course.
All roads are considered dangerous.
A robber's accomplice is as bad as a robber himself.

A tree whose branches are abundant but whose roots are few,
the wind comes and uproots and overturns it.
The branches are lost when the root is.
Nature allows that the roots shall reign over the branches.
The root of the tree is deep in the earth, but a man's is above; for the soul is his root and it is from heaven.
To hold the rope at both ends...
[Playing both ends against the middle]

If two ropes are tied together,
untying one means untying both.

A rope drawn too tight is apt to snap.
Let us crown ourselves with rosebuds before they wither!
[Gather ye rosebuds while ye may!]
If you want to pick roses,
be not afraid that the thorns will prick you!
Instead of being annoyed with roses that have thorns,
you should marvel at thorns encircled by roses.
On six days work may be done, but on the seventh day you shall have a Sabbath of complete rest, holy to the Lord.
No Sabbath laws apply wherever there is doubt
that life is in danger.
Sabbath has a flavor of Paradise about it.
It is the Sabbath, and one should not weep,
for healing is nigh to come.
Your talk on the Sabbath
should not be like your talk on a weekday.
Israel will be redeemed only for Sabbath's sake.

The Sabbath never ceases to be.
It was forbidden to break the Sabbath,
even when David, king of Israel, died.Great is the Sabbath,
since it outweighs all religious precepts.
Who observes the Sabbath is as though he created it.
Sabbath is a hint of life everlasting
in a world full of rest and repose.
More than Israel has preserved the Sabbath,
the Sabbath has preserved Israel.
No one that feels a real link with the nation in his heart throughout the ages could imagine the existence of the Jewish people without 'Sabbath the Queen'.
The Sabbath is a day of rest, of mental scrutiny and of balance.  Without it the workdays are insipid.

I desire steadfast love and not sacrifice.
Sacrifices offered by the wicked
are an abomination to the Lord.
There is no sacrifice like heartbreak.
All dishes need salt, but not all need spices.
Yeast, salt and recalcitrance are good only in small doses.
A meal without salt is no meal.
God's salvation may come in the twinkling of an eye.
Never open your mouth to Satan!

Wherever you find contentment, Satan upsets.

Education...should concern itself primarily...with the liberation, organization, and direction of power and intelligence, with the development of taste, with culture.
He that gathers little by little will multiply his means.
Small coins make a large account.
A penny saved is better than a pound earned.
Warm yourself at the fire of the Sages!
Scholars enhance peace in the world.
A scholar who abandons study
is like 'a bird that strays from the nest.'
Who declines to endow a scholar with his worldly goods
will see no blessing.
The wife of a scholar is accounted one, too.
Cursed be the scholar who adorns not himself
with the glory of Torah.No man is born a scholar.
A synagogue may be turned into a school:
but not a school into a synagogue.
One does not keep children from school
even to build the Temple.
A town without schoolchildren is doomed to destruction.
The workshop of the nation's soul. [School] 

The tavern will not spoil the good nor school mend the bad.
Science without religion is lame;
religion without science is blind.
Science is not a sacred cow.  Science is a horse.
Don't worship it, just feed it!
The sea takes abundantly and gives abundantly.

Set me as a seal upon your heart,
as a signet upon your arm!
Truth is the seal of God.
Guard the portals of your lips
from her that lies in your bosom!
Let your friends be many
but your confidant only one in a thousand!
Who tells a secret will forfeit trust,
and find no true friend.
Who keeps a secret is a bosom friend.
Tell your secret only to one in a thousand!
Wine in, secret out.
No physician can cure a prejudice, which is a blindness 
in the mind. 
A secret is between two only: one shared by three is none.
The wise man will not tell his secret
or ask another to tell his.
Tell not your secret to your friend,
for sometimes a friend turns into a foe!
Who tells his friend's secret sheds blood.
If your own heart is too narrow to hold your secret,
your friend's is narrower still.
The secret things belong unto the Lord our God, but the things that are revealed belong unto us and to our children for ever. [Deuteronomy (Devarim) 29:28]---The trouble is that even the revealed things are unseen by us.

The Lord sees not as Man sees:  Man looks on the outward appearance, but He looks on the heart.
I did not believe the reports until I came and my own eyes had seen it.

Wretched the creatures that see and know not what they see.
Things seen will move the heart more than things heard.
He who sees everything sees nothing.
A man without self-control 
is like a city stormed and its walls shattered.
Who is a hero?  He who conquers his will.
If someone comes to kill you,
get in first and kill him!
If a people cannot help itself, 
it cannot be helped at all.
If I am not for me, you will not be either.
You cannot liken the self-taught man to the schooled.
Sell your merchandise while the dust of the day
is still on your feet!
A man with no sense deserves no pity.
What emotion can do, brains cannot.
I wish we could feel what we understand
and understand what we feel.
Our ancestors in the desert remembered the fine fish they used to eat in Egypt,
but the hard labor they were made to do there they forgot.
Beware of two persons: a serious man behind whose gravity there is no lightness of mind and a woman of light mind with no gravity in it.
Be the master good or bad,
the servant is still a servant.
My days are like a passing shadow
and I wither away like the grass.
Man is just a breath whose days are as a passing shadow.
Every tree will cast a shadow like unto itself.
Who flees from his shadow, his shadow pursues.
The unjust knows no shame.

Who shames his friend in public
has no share in the world to come.
Who shames his friend in public is as one that sheds blood.
Who commits a sin and is ashamed of it
is pardoned for all his sins.A woman's shame is greater than a man's.
Put no other to shame
and you will not be put to shame yourself.

Shame induces us to fear sin.

Being ashamed of oneself
is not like being ashamed of others.
So long as you have not lost your sense of shame,
the image of God is still within you.

If ten men sit together and occupy themselves with the Law,
the Divine Presence is in their midst.
The Shekhina does not bide amidst gloom and sloth, amidst frivolity, levity or idle chatter, but only in the joy of performing a precept.
There is no place where the Divine Presence is not.

Whithersoever Israel were exiled,
the Divine Presence was with them.
If there are no sheep, what need for a shepherd?
When the shepherd goes astray, his sheep stray after him.
Between careless shepherd and wolf, the lamb is lost.
Who behaves as a sheep is devoured by the wolf.
No one shoe can fit every foot.
All cobblers go barefoot.

No shopkeeper gets poor from small profits.
Be not slow to visit the sick!
Six things augur well for the sick: sneezing, sweating, looseness of bowels, nocturnal pollution, sleeping and dreaming.
Never call a halt to your visiting of the sick!
Who visits a sick friend lessens his pain a little.
The sick man who lies to the doctor deceives only himself.
The sick man who wants to eat
is better than the healthy man who cannot bear food.
Sickness of the spirit is worse than sickness of the flesh.
Who never was sick cannot realize the value of health.
A time to keep silent and a time to speak out.Silence means consent.
Silence profits the wise and even more the fool.
Keep silent or speak wisely!

There is no better way of vexing an abuser
than keeping silent.
Silence is better than being wrong.
When the kingdom of words ends,
the kingdom of silence begins.
There is a silence whose sound travels
from one end of the world to the other.
A time to keep silence and a time to silence others.
To look for absolute justice among politicians,
that is charming simplicity!
Who hides his sins will not prosper.
One sinner destroys much good.

Keep sin at a distance and it will turn aside from you!
Flee from a sin as from a snake,
for if you draw nigh it will bite you!

Every sin is like a double-edged sword,
and there is no cure against its wound.

Consider three things and you will not fall into error:
know what is above you, a seeing eye and a listening ear, and your deeds written in a scroll.
Crime does not pay.
There is no proxy in transgression.
[The sinner cannot shift the blame to his employer.]
If a man is told to commit all the sins in the Torah to save his life, let him obey, save for idolatry, incest and the shedding of blood.
Happy the man who is above his sins
and not the other way round.

If a sin waylays a man and he rejects it,
that is deemed a great virtue.
A scholar who fears not sin
is as a craftsman without his tools.
If you have made bundles of bad deeds,
make bundles of good ones to offset them!
If a person meant to commit a sin,
the Lord will not consider it till it be committed.
Sin at its beginning is as thin as a spider's web,
and at the end as thick as a cart-rope.
When sinning, the fool blames others,
the moralist himself and the wise and righteous neither himself nor others.Denial of sin is double sin.
Crime is its own punishment.

A man wil soon forget his sin if he does not make it public.
It is not the sin that drives one crazy
the the desire to sin.
Who covers his sin with a lie is like one that tries to hide a stain on his coat with a hole in his mantle.
Jewish law knows no incurable sin.
Who slanders is a fool.
Come, see how great the power of slander!
How do we know?  From the story of the spies that went into the Promised Land.
The slanderer is like a snake
that can only hurt and profits not.
Every slanderer estranges the Divine Presence.

If you have said any little word of evil about others,
regard it as a big one!
Who speaks slander is as one
that denies the principle of faith, the existence of God.

The talebearer destroys three persons:
himself, the listener and the victim.
A servant whose master has no control over him
cannot be called one.

The sleep of the wicked is a benefit to them
and a boon to the world.
Rather a slip of the foot than a slip of the tongue.

Those who have wept and laughed together
are no longer strangers.
A wise son makes a glad father,
but a foolish one is his mother's grief.
Who spares the rod hates his son.
Like father, like son.
If you wish to rule over your soul,
hand it to your intellect!
The soul has health and sickness just as the body has.
Not all souls are alike.
The soul is the light of the body.
When the soul is at peace,
so will the body be.Woe to him that builds mansions for the body
and not for the soul.
If you do not sow, how will you harvest?
Sometimes one must look into ashes to find a solitary spark.
Wisdom is known by utterance
and intelligence by the answer of the tongue.
Gentle speech multiplies friends.
Accustom not your lips to use obscene speech!

Just as the law against defrauding applies to buying and selling, so does it apply to the spoken word.
Man was given two ears and one tongue, so that he may listen more than speak.
Who knows how to speak well will know how to keep silent, but not all who know how to keep silent know how to speak well.
A man speaks only what he ponders in his heart.

There are two kinds of speakers: one that we know in advance all that he is going to say and the other that even after he finishes his speech one does not know what he said.
Who only spends and never earns
soon gets to the bottom of his pocket.
Stains are not seen at night.
What is the grossest form of neglect?  If a man does not. . . devote every effort toward the education of his children.
Who seeks to elevate his stature by donning a high paper hat or walking on stilts is but a clown.

A time to cast stones and a time to gather them.

If you throw up a stone, it will fall back on your head.
Cast no stone into the well that gives you water!

It is easiser, perhaps, to do good deeds
than tell good stories.
Whose way is straight is an abomination to the wicked.
What is the straight way a man should choose?
That which does him honor and wins him the esteem of men.
There shall be one law for the citizen
and for the stranger who dwells among you.
Build your home in such a way that a stranger
may feel happy in your midst!

Say not: when I have leisure I will study,
lest you may not have it!
If you forsake study for one day,
it will forsake you for two.A man must repeat the lesson until his pupil has learnt it.
Study leads to action.
If you see a student who finds it as hard as iron to study, it is because his studies are without system.
Just as a man does not blush to ask his friend to give him water, so he should not be ashamed to ask a younger man to teach him Torah.
If you do not suffer the toil of study,
you will suffer the toil of ignorance.
Who studies gladly for a single hour will learn vastly more than one who studies glumly for hours on end.

Who is a thief?  Not the one who knows how to steal, but the one who steals.  Who is a learner?  Not the one who knows how to learn, but the one who learns.
The shoe according to the foot
and the style according to the contents.
Who keeps on knocking will succeed.
The real success is success of the soul.
From a successful man even the devil runs away.
Sugar in the mouth will not help if the heart is bitter.
There is nothing new under the sun.
The sun needs no candle.
Who suspects the upright will be smitten with bodily ill.
It is worth a man's while to remove suspicion far from him,
even it he is known to be faithful and just.
Everything done by stealth is suspect.
Man could not have known sweetness
until he tasted the bitter.
All swindlers hate and besmirch each other.
If you have taken what is not yours,
even that which is yours shall be taken from you.
Do not take by force what will be given you willingly!

Great talent must eventually bring forth great fruit.
The greatest and rarest talent a man can possess
is to love everything that is good.
Even the mundane talk of scholars needs study.
Prepare tasty dishes to each according to his taste;
think not that what is sweet to your palate is sweet to your neighbor's!Those who have no taste are incurable.

There is no disputing about tastes.
I became wiser from every teacher.
Find yourself a teacher and get you a fellow-student!
Revere your teacher as you would heaven.
If your teacher is in town, go and learn from him!

As you teach, you learn.
Just as the mirror should be more polished than the gazer, so should the teacher be more brilliant than the pupil.
Who is without wife should not teach children.
No pupil will attend to his lessons property
unless he respects his teacher.
Happy the teacher whose puppil thanks him.
When you whitewash your home, leave a small patch bare
to remind you of the Temple's destruction!
[Tisha B'Av]

The future Temple will be spiritual, out of Heaven.
When you come to serve God,
prepare your soul against temptation.
No man should lead himself into temptation.
No temptation to sin should be offered to the honest,
much less to the thief.
[Opportunity makes the villain.]
God only created the evil urge to tempt men.
One should be thankful to a place
from which one gains contentment.
Who steals from a thief goes unpunished.

The breach beckons the burglar.
If a thief finds nothing to steal,
he thinks himself honest.
Before a thief steals, he has learned to lie.
Consider your words before you utter them!
To stop thinking means to stop living.
We must endeavor to teach even the unintelligent.For everything there is a season and a time
for every purpose under the heavens.
There is not a man but has his hour,
nor a thing without its place.
[There is a time and a place for everything.
Every dog has his day.]
Time is the most sublime and wisest teacher.
There is no better physician for any sickness than time.

There is no loss as bad as the loss of time.
What time can do all your cleverness cannot.
Time is rare and precious and money cannot buy it.
Draw from the past, live in the present,
work for the future!
Nothing is more precious than time
and nothing so much abused.
As you do, so will you be done by.
Tolerance can be based, and it will be based,
on reciprocity.
Keep your tongue from evil,
and your lips from speaking deceit!

A soothing tongue is a tree of life; but wild words break the spirit.

A man with a perverse tongue falls into calamity.

Death and life are in the power of one's tongue.

Honor and shame are in the power of the tongue.

Hold your tongue as you would hold your money!

The arrows of the tongue kill even from afar.

The tongue is the heart's pen and the mind's messenger.

If a horse with four legs can sometimes stumble,
how much more a man with only one tongue!

Moses commanded us a Law,
heritage of the congregation of Jacob.
This book of the Law shall not depart out of your mouth,
but you shall meditate on it day and night.
The Law of the Lord is perfect, it revives the soul;
the testimony of the Lord is to be trusted, it gives wisdom to the simple; the precepts of the Lord are right.
The Law is illumination.
Blessed be he that keeps the Law!The first man knew it not perfectly, neither will the last search it thoroughly; for its understanding is wider than the sea and its counsel deeper than the abyss. [Torah] 

No learning, no manners;
no manners, no learning;
no lore, no loaf.
Engage but little in business
and busy yourself with the Torah!
Turn the Torah and turn it again,
for all things are in it!
To use the Torah is more important than to study it.
If food, which is ephemeral, requires a blessing before and after you eat it, how much more so the Torah, which is everlasting!

The man who boasts: 'I have naught but the Torah' has not even that.
The Torah sheds its grace upon those who study it.
Why was the Torah likened unto water?  As water leaves a high place and flows to a low one, the Torah, too, rests only among those whose mind is humble.
Why was the torah likened unto water?  As water leaves a high place and flows to a low one, the Torah, too, rests only among those whose mind is humble.
Who occupies himself with the Torah for its own sake finds his learning become his elixir of life.
Who loves the Torah will never be sated of it.

As wine enlivens the heart, so do the words of the Torah.
If a man does not pursue the words of the Law,
they will not pursue him.
Who fails to teach his son a trade
might just as well have taught him to rob.

Tradition is a fence for the Torah.
Tradition must be a spring-board into the future,
not an arm-chair for repose.
Even the best translation cannot render fully 
the exact meaning of the text.
The translator is a commentator, and every commentator also adds something of himself towards the deepening of the matter, its explanation and emphasis.

Reading poetry in translation is like kissing a woman through a veil.

The good translation is, to a certain extent, an artistic work more difficult than the original.

Sometimes one must translate not the lines themselves
but what is written between them.

Outside of a dog, a book is man's best friend. Inside of a dog, it's too dark to read.
Who travels knows much.
The traveller who keeps on is bound to reach his destination.When you besiege a city for a long time. . . you shall not destroy its trees.
Who cuts down good trees sees no profit.
If a man sees trouble brewing, let him examine his own acts!
New troubles make us forget the old.
There is no trouble in the world without its cure.
Tell not your trouble to one who has none!
Troubles never come singly, every bother has its brother.
Troubles come quickly and go away slowly.
There is no man who has not his own pack of troubles.
Buy truth and sell it not!
There is no mistaking the truth.
The only purpose of truth is that one knows it is the truth.
Truth will make its way.
Truth needs no ally.
Bear the truth even if it be bitter!
Be not ashamed to accept the truth whencesoever it come, even from one less than you!
The truth spoken is better than the truth withheld.
The truth alone will overcome the many.
Truth rises to the top, like oil upon water.
A little of the truth will defeat much of the lie.
Truth is burdensome, therefore are its bearers few.
It is not enough for a man to know the truth, he should also know the ways that lead to the knowledge of it.
Truth is the tree of life, and from it you will eat all your days.
There is no hammer more powerful to beat on the hearts of men than the hard and bitter truth.
The simplest and clearest truth is the most difficult of wide acceptance.The truth is not divulged to a man piecemeal, but only in full appearance.
We fear not the truth, even if it be gloomy, but its counterfeit.
There is no cure for those who know the truth but mean to reject it.
A half-truth is a whole lie.
Truth lives long and yet does not grow old.
A dead truth is no truth.
Out of the mouths of children and drunkards one may discover the truth.
What comes out of the unclean is unclean, what comes out of the pure is pure.
Get wisdom, acquire understanding!
Good understanding gives grace.
Without understanding there is no knowledge, and without knowledge no understanding.
A bundle of reeds cannot be broken by a man; but, taken singly, even a child can break them.
Without unity there is nothing.
Usury is as shedding blood.
Who takes exorbitant interest suffers impairment of his property.
How blindfold are those who lend at interest!
What does usury resemble?  A man bitten by a snake who does not feel the bite until the swelling starts.

You shall not take vengeance!
No power has ever won complete and absolute victory.
Vinegar is good for you in dry heat.
Virtue bears its fruits.
Voices, sights and savours refresh Man's mind.
Two voices cannot enter one ear.
When you make a vow to God, tarry not in its discharge!
It is better that you should not vow than that you should vow and then not pay.Vows are a fence against sin.
A vow unpaid is like thunder without rain.
A vow annulled in part is annulled in whole.
You shall not mistreat a needy and destitute laborer, whether a fellow countryman or a foreigner in your communities.  You shall pay him his wages on the same day, before the sun sets, for he is in want and urgently depends on it.
The Divine Presence never quits the Western Wall.
They shall beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruninghooks; nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more.
By wise counsel you can wage your war.
A time for war and a time for peace.
In a war of defense everyone comes out to fight, even the groom from his chamber and the bride from her bed.
In a war stay where you are, in famine shift your ground!
It is the way of a man to wage war, not the way of a woman.
Because of war, old age creeps up on you.  Of Joshua, after waging war with thirty-one kings, it is said: And Joshua became old and stricken in years.
One does not wage war, whether profane or holy, before one offers peace, as it is written [Deuteronomy (Devarim) 20:10]---When you come near a city to fight against it, then proclaim peace unto it!

Better overt war than covert peace.
War is a bad and contemptible thing, but people at war are sometimes better than in everyday life.
A warning to a man is a warning to the whole community.
No punishment should be meted out without previous warning.
Who warns us against wrong does us as much good as one that teaches us the right way.
One can live without wine but not without water.
Let no man spill the water of his cistern while others need it!
Cast not a stone into the well whence you drank!
[Bite not the hand that feeds you!]

Pass not over water whose depth you know not, lest it run too deep!
You cannot draw water from a dry well.
There is a long way that is short and a short one that is long.
The short way is the straight way.If you stand against the wave, it will wash you away.

The weak dream so much of strength that at last they come to see their very weakness as strength.
Whoso gains wealth, but not of right, will lose it in his prime.
When you teach your son, use a carefully edited text.

Where wealth is your virtue, look below you and be thankful for your portion; where it is wisdom, look above you and know your shortcoming!
Wealth is a pedigree to the man that lacks one.
The more money, the richer; the more wit, the happier.
The lust for wealth is only one of the forms of power.
Diverse weights and diverse measures are an abomination to the Lord.
The wicked are like the tossing sea, for it cannot rest, and its waters cast up mire and dirt.  There is no peace, says God, for the wicked.
Happy the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked!
The way of the wicked is like deep darkness; they know not over what they stumble.
The mouth of the wicked utters the preverse.
Who says to the wicked: 'You are innocent' will be cursed by peoples, abhorred by nations.
Profit not from the burning coals of the wicked, lest you be consumed in his fire!
Envy not a wicked man, for you know not what his end will be!
Better that I be a fool all my days than wicked even for an hour before the Lord.
A man that calls his friend wicked is as his persecutor.
The righteous promise little and perform much; the wicked promise much and perform not even a little.
A gathering of the wicked is an evil for them and an evil for the world.
Who respects the wicked is as bad as an idolater.
If the wicked do a favor, it is never complete.
Harshness to the wicked is as mercy to the good.
You shall not mistreat any widow or orphan.
Every widower finds his world darkened.A man whose first wife dies is as though the Temple was destroyed in his lifetime.

Enjoy life with the wife you love, all the days of your vain life.
A good wife is a crown to her husband.
House and wealth are inherited from fathers, but a wise wife is from the Lord.
Who can find a good wife?  Her price is far above pearls.
A pleasant home, a pleasant wife and pleasant furnishings enlarge a man's mind.

Cursed be he whose wife is faithful and himself is not!
A graceful wife lends grace to her husband.
Who is rich?  Who has a wife lovely in her deeds.
A wife is one's heart's delight.
Everything comes from the woman---a good and worthy wife makes her husband righteous, and the opposite is also true.

There is no end to the goodness of the good wife, and none to the wickedness of a bad one.
A wife's bickering is as an endless dripping of rain.
A wicked wife is like leprosy to her husband.
Everything has an end except a bad wife.
A bad wife scorches you worse than fire, and chokes you worse than rope or water.
Therefore a man leaves his father and his mother, and cleaves to his wife: and they become one flesh.

A woman is worthier after she has become a mother than before.
If your wife is tiny, bend down and whisper for her counsel!
A husband should be at pains to treat his wife with respect (...not to hurt his wife's feelings).
A man may sell his Scrolls of the Law to take a wife.
A man who marries a second time remembers all his first wife did.
A man cannot live without a woman or a woman live without a man.
A wifeless man exists without joy, without blessing or boon.
A wifeless man is not a man.It is enough that our wives bring up our children and save us from sin.
A man should eat and drink less than he can afford to, dress as well and as much as he can afford to, and lavish more on his wife.

No man should betroth a woman, sight unseen.
If a man's wife dies and he has grown-up children, let him not remarry till he marry them off!

A man is lucky if his wife, his studies and his livelihood all come from his own town.
A man who marries a decent woman is as though he fulfilled all the Torah's behests.
A man should not quarrel with his wife to please his parents.
A wife is as a protective wall to her husband.
If your wife be chaste, why should you watch her?
If she be not, you will watch her in vain.
A house without a wife is an orphan.
Better not to agree with your wife, and love her, than to agree with her and not.
If you but will it, it is no fairy tale.  If you will it, it is not a dream.
Fie on those that rise early in the morning to run after strong drink and tarry late at eventide till wine inflames them!
Wine cheers the heart of a man.
Look not on the wine when it is red, when it sparkles in the cup and goes down smoothly!  In the end, it bites like a serpent and stings like an adder.
Give strong drink to the lost and wine to those in dire distress!
Show not yourself valiant in wine, for many has it undone!
Wine is as good as life to Man, if you drink it in its proper measure.
Much wine is a trap to the fool, it weakens you and provokes injurious bickering.
How exceeding strong is wine!  It makes all to err that drink it.
Wine tops the list of all medicines.
Wine adds to the appetite.
Where there is wine there is lust.

A lot of wine is harmful but a little is good.
Wine is as good to the old as milk is to babes.Wine will renew the passion of lovers and the hatred of an enemy.
Wisdom cries without, she utters her voice in the streets.
Happy the man that finds wisdom!
The beginning of wisdom is this:  Get wisdom!
Wisdom is better than jewels.
Wisdom is as high above folly as light is above darkness.
The yoke of wisdom is a yoke of gold.
Wisdom lifts up the poor man's head and sets him among princes.
Wisdom is good if parental virtues go with it.
Wisdom came before the Torah.
The first virtue of wisdom is silence; the second hearing; the third memory; and the fourth action.
Who seeks wisdom by the right path will gain it.
A man is wise while he is seeking wisdom, but, when he thinks he has reached its end, he is a fool.
Wisdom is a good inheritance.
Arrange the ordinances in order, like a set table.
A body without wisdom is like a house without foundations.
Be not allured by Greek wisdom, for it bears no fruit but only flowers!
Just as the world cannot exist without water, so it cannot be without wisdom.
Man gains wealth by wisdom and forfeits it by folly.
Wisdom without morals is like a ring without a gem.
Wisdom will go with a man withersoever he goes.
Who has won wisdom has won everything.
Wisdom without action is like a tree without fruit.
The wisdom of wisdoms is that a man should not be overwise.
Be not wise in your own eyes!The wise of heart will heed commandments.
Who walks with wise men becomes wise.
A rich man is wise in his own eyes.

The wise man will be silent till his time comes.
Who is wise?  He who can learn from every man.  Who is strong?  He who can control his passions.  Who is rich?  He who is content with his lot.  Whom do men honor?  He who honors his fellow men.
If silence is good for the wise, the better it is for the witless.
Who hates the wise is banished from the world to come.

Be wise not in words but in deeds!
When you sit before the wise, let it be your wish to listen rather than lecture!
Who is called wise?  He that knows his own shortcomings.
The desire of the wise is to learn, and of fools to teach.
It is easier to be wise for others than for oneself.
Who once did a clever thing is not yet to be considered wise, and who once did a foolish thing not yet a fool.
If he were as wise as he is foolish, he would be among the gtreat Sages of his time.
A single witness may not establish the guilt of any man.
Be not a witness against your neighbors without cause!
Evidence refuted in part is refuted altogether.
Once a witness has given his evidence, he cannot change it.
Who bears false witness against his friend deserves to be thrown to the wolves.
No witness can become the judge.
What neither fire nor water can consume, false testimony can.
The wolf changes its fur but not its nature.
Not everyone who is not a wolf must be a lamb.
If the wolf speaks of peace, gather in your flock at once!
If a wolf comes to kill you, you are not bound to pat its back.Charm is deceitful and beauty is vain, but a God-fearing woman is to be praised.
A woman feels shame more keenly than a man.
The Lord gave more wit to women than to men.
A man is easily cajoled, not so the woman.

Women are more compassionate than men.
The best helpmeet to uphold religion is a good woman.
Better to dwell in a corner on the roof, than with a quarrelsome woman in a great mansion.
I had rather dwell with a lion and a dragon than keep house with a wicked woman.
There is no greater hatred than a woman's.
[Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned.]
I will make of you a great nation.
A woman suffers more from the jealousy of a friend than from the prick of a thorn.
Who is deemed a termagant?  The woman that speaks inside her own home yet the neighbors hear her words.

A woman may change the color of her hair, but not her character.
Wise men have become fools because of the charms of a beautiful woman.
Just as there is a key to a house, there is a key to every woman.
Praise a woman's beauty to her face and she will forgive all your sins!
Sometimes a woman is happy because she is pretty, sometimes she is pretty because she is happy.
There are many devices in the heart of a man but what a woman decides is the wish of God.
A man is led the way he wishes to follow.
A word fitly spoken is as apples of gold in a setting of silver.

How forceful are honest words!

From a man's words you may know if he likes you or hates you.
A bird you set free you may catch again, but a word that escapes your lips will not return.

The word is the shadow of the deed.
Did we realize the inner meaning of each word we utter, our time would suffice for but a few words.
There are words like lofty mountains, and words like yawning gulfs.

Words should be weighed, not counted.
This world is like an anteroom of the world to come.
Three things have a faint savor of the world to come:  Sabbath, the sun and married love.
Not everyone poor today will be poor tomorrow; nor everyone rich today be so tomorrow, for the world is a turning wheel.
What matters in Man's life is the eternal life in the world to come.

God has created two worlds with a frontier between:
one for deeds and the other for rewards.
This world is a raging ocean and you should imagine yourself always in a ship at sea.
There is no good thing in this world which will not be better in the next.
Wounds may be cured but not the hurt of words.
If he is a fighter, he is no writer; if a writer, no fighter.
Who is the person that bares his nakedness here and it is beheld everywhere?  The man that writes something and errs in writing it.
Happy are we whose youth shamed not our old age!
Drunk but not of wine---that is a man in his youth.
A young man has to live and an old man wants to.
The Jews have one way of saving themselves---a return to their own people and an emigration to their own Land.
Lord Samuel once said:  'The Jews are like all other peoples, but with a certain plus'; the Zionists, too, in respect of the Land of Israel are like all Jews, but also plus something.
A child of five could understand this. Fetch me a child of five. 

He may look like an idiot and talk like an idiot but don't let that fool you. 
He really is an idiot. 

I must say that I find television very educational. 
The minute somebody turns it on, I go to the library and read a book.

Marriage is the chief cause of divorce.
The study of Torah outweighs all sacrifices.
Those are my principles. If you don't like them I have others.
Time wounds all heels. 
Great services are not canceled by one act or by one single error.
Never apologize for showing feeling. When you do so, 
you apologize for truth.
Nurture your mind with great thoughts; to believe in the heroic makes heroes.

The best way to become acquainted with a subject is to 
write a book about it.

The greatest good you can do for another 
is not just share your riches, but to reveal to him his own.

The wisdom of the wise, and the experience of ages, 
may be preserved by quotation.

There are three kinds of lies: lies, damned lies, and statistics.

What we anticipate seldom occurs; what we least expected 
generally happens.

When men are pure, laws are useless; when men are corrupt, 
laws are broken.

How much easier it is to be critical than to be correct.

To be conscious that you are ignorant is a great step to knowledge.

Do not worry about your difficulties in Mathematics. 
I can assure you mine are still greater.

I never think of the future - it comes soon enough.

If I had only known, I would have been a locksmith.

Imagination is more important than knowledge...

My religion consists of a humble admiration of the 
illimitable superior spirit who reveals himself in the 
slight details we are able to perceive with our frail and 
feeble mind.

Too many captains will sink a ship.
Reading, after a certain age, diverts the mind too much from its creative pursuits. Any man who reads too much and uses his own brain too little falls into lazy habits of thinking.

The important thing is not to stop questioning. 
Curiosity has its own reason for existing. 
One cannot help but be in awe when he contemplates the 
mysteries of eternity, of life, of the marvelous structure 
of reality. It is enough if one tries merely to comprehend 
a little of this mystery every day. Never lose a holy curiosity.

The most beautiful thing we can experience is the mysterious. It is the source of all true art and science.

The most incomprehensible thing about the world is that it is at all comprehensible.

The release of atomic energy has not created a new problem. 
It has merely made more urgent the necessity of solving an 
existing one.

The secret to creativity is knowing how to hide your sources.

Too many of us look upon Americans as dollar chasers. 
This is a cruel libel, even if it is reiterated thoughtlessly by the Americans themselves.

Try not to become a man of success but rather to become 
a man of value.

We should take care not to make the intellect our god; 
it has, of course, powerful muscles, but no personality.
Yes, we have to divide up our time like that, between our 
politics and our equations. But to me our equations are far 
more important, for politics are only a matter of present concern. A mathematical equation stands forever.

Science without religion is lame, religion without science is blind.

Everything that is really great and inspiring is created by 
the individual who can labor in freedom.

It is the duty of every citizen according to his best capacities to give validity to his convictions in political affairs.

If A is success in life, then A equals x plus y plus z. 
Work is x; y is play; and z is keeping your mouth shut.

A Hospital is no place to be sick.

Anyone who goes to a psychiatrist ought to have his head examined.

I don't think anyone should write their autobiography until 
after they're dead.

I don't want any yes-men around me. I want everybody to tell me the truth even if it costs them their jobs.

I had a monumental idea this morning, but I didn't like it.

I never put on a pair of shoes until I've worn them 
at least five years.

If I could drop dead right now, I'd be the happiest man alive.

Let's have some new cliches.

Spare no expense to save money on this one.

Television has raised writing to a new low.

When someone does something good, applaud! 
You will make two people happy.

You've got to take the bitter with the sour.

A verbal contract isn't worth the paper it's written on.

The body is a marvelous machine...a chemical laboratory, 
a power-house. Every movement, voluntary or involuntary, 
full of secrets and marvels!

The absence of alternatives clears the mind marvelously.

The nice thing about being a celebrity is that when you 
bore people, they think it's their fault.

The real distinction is between those who adapt their purposes to reality and those who seek to mold reality in the light of their purposes.

There cannot be a crisis next week. My schedule is already full.

University politics are vicious precisely because the stakes are so small.

Each success only buys an admission ticket to a 
more difficult problem.
The husband who wants a happy marriage should learn to 
keep his mouth shut and his checkbook open. 

Whoever called it necking was a poor judge of anatomy. 

You've got the brain of a four-year-old boy, and 
I'll bet he was glad to get rid of it. 
Bridge is a game that separates the men from the boys. 
It also separates husbands and wives. 
By the time you're eighty years old you've learned 
everything. You only have to remember it. 
You've got to be honest; if you can fake that, 
you've got it made. 
Gravitation is not responsible for people falling in love. 

If you are out to describe the truth, leave elegance to 
the tailor. 
Only two things are infinite, the universe and human 
stupidity, and I'm not sure about the former. 
Reality is merely an illusion, albeit a very persistent one. 
Science is a wonderful thing if one does not have to earn one's living at it. 
Great is charity, for it brings near the redemption.

The hardest thing in the world to understand, is income tax.
The most incomprehensible thing about the world is that it is comprehensible. 
The only reason for time is so that everything doesn't happen at once. 
I know not with what weapons World War III will be 
fought, but World War IV will be fought with sticks and stones.
Insanity: doing the same thing over and over again and 
expecting different results.

Before God we are all equally wise - and equally foolish.
Eighty percent of success is showing up.
I'm astounded by people who want to 'know' the universe 
when it's hard enough to find your way around Chinatown. 
I am not afraid of death, 
I just don't want to be there when it happens. 
I've never been an intellectual but I have this look. 
If only God would give me some clear sign! 
Like making a large deposit in my name at a Swiss bank. 
I don't want to achieve immortality through my work. 
I want to achieve it through not dying. 
Interestingly, according to modern astronomers, 
space is finite. This is a very comforting thought -- 
particularly for people who can never remember where 
they have left things. To you I'm an atheist; to God, I'm the Loyal Opposition. 

The good people sleep much better at night than the 
bad people. Of course, the bad people enjoy the waking 
hours much more. 
What if everything is an illusion and nothing exists? 
In that case, I definitely overpaid for my carpet. 

Why are our days numbered and not, say lettered? 
I can't listen to that much Wagner. 
I start getting the urge to conquer Poland.
The greatest charity is to enable the poor to earn a living.

It is impossible to experience one's death objectively and 
still carry a tune.
The talk of the child in the street is that of his father or mother at home.
Life is full of misery, loneliness, and suffering - 
and it's all over much too soon.

Money is better than poverty, if only for financial reasons.

My one regret in life is that I am not someone else.

On the plus side, death is one of the few things that can 
be done just as easily lying down.

Students achieving Oneness will move on to Twoness.

Tragedy is when I cut my finger. 
Comedy is when you walk into an open sewer and die.

Communism is like one big phone company.

Retirement at sixty-five is ridiculous. 
When I was sixty-five I still had pimples.

Life is just a bowl of pits.

Cleanliness and order are not matters of instinct; 
they are matters of education, and like most great things, 
you must cultivate a taste for them.

All married couples should learn the art of battle as they 
should learn the art of making love. Good battle is objective and honest - never vicious or cruel. Good battle is healthy and constructive, and brings to a marriage the principle of equal partnership.

Opportunities are usually disguised as hard work, so most 
people don't recognize them.

As a teenager you are at the last stage in your life 
when you will be happy to hear that the phone is for 
you. 

Ask your child what he wants for dinner only if he's buying.

Food is an important part of a balanced diet.

Great people talk about ideas, average people talk about things, and small people talk about wine.

I must take issue with the term 'a mere child,' 
for it has been my invariable experience that the company of a mere child is infinitely preferable to that of a mere adult.
I never took hallucinogenic drugs because I never wanted my 
consciousness expanded one unnecessary iota.

Stand firm in your refusal to remain conscious during 
algebra. In real life, I assure you, there is no such 
thing as algebra.
Life is something that happens when you can't get to sleep.

My favorite animal is steak. 

No animal should ever jump up on the dining-room furniture unless absolutely certain that he can hold his own in the conversation.

Special-interest publications should realize that if they are attracting enough advertising and readers to make a profit, the interest is not so special.

Success didn't spoil me, I've always been insufferable.

The opposite of talking isn't listening. 
The opposite of talking is waiting.

Your life story would not make a good book. Don't even try.

Military intelligence is a contradiction in terms.

I never forget a face, but in your case I'll be glad to 
make an exception.

Military justice is to justice what military music is to music.

Money frees you from doing things you dislike. 
Since I dislike doing nearly everything, money is handy.

My mother loved children -- she would have given anything if I had been one.

She got her looks from her father. He's a plastic surgeon.

I must govern the clock, not be governed by it.

Ask about your neighbors, then buy the house.

Don't be sweet, lest you be eaten up; don't be bitter, 
lest you be spewed out.
Don't look for more honor than your learning merits.

He that can't endure the bad, will not live to see the good.

If God lived on earth, people would break his windows.
Make sure to be in with your equals if you're going to 
fall out with your superiors.
Rejoice not at thine enemy's fall - but don't rush to pick 
him up either.

What you don't see with your eyes, don't invent with your mouth.

Worries go down better with soup than without.The first time I see a jogger smiling, I'll consider it.

It is difficult to produce a television documentary that is 
both incisive and probing when every twelve minutes one is 
interrupted by twelve dancing rabbits singing about toilet paper.

Eat a third and drink a third and leave the remaining third of your stomach empty. Then, when you get angry, there will be sufficient room for your rage.

Beware of too much laughter, for it deadens the 
mind and produces oblivion.
Education is: Making Men.
Live well. It is the greatest revenge.
Never expose yourself unnecessarily to danger; 
a miracle may not save you...and if it does, 
it will be deducted from your share of luck or merit.
The nice thing about standards is that there are 
so many of them to choose from.
Children ask better questions than adults. 
'May I have a cookie?' 'Why is the sky blue?' and 
'What does a cow say?' are far more likely to elicit 
a cheerful response than 'Where's your manuscript?' 
Why haven't you called?' and 'Who's your lawyer?' 
Do not, on a rainy day, ask your child what he feels 
like doing, because I assure you that what he feels 
like doing, you won't feel like watching. 
Educational television should be absolutely forbidden. 
It can only lead to unreasonable disappointment when 
your child discovers that the letters of the alphabet 
do not leap up out of books and dance around with 
royal-blue chickens. 

Even when freshly washed and relieved of all obvious 
confections, children tend to be sticky. 
I figure you have the same chance of winning the 
lottery whether you play or not. 

Nature is by and large to be found out of doors, 
a location where, it cannot be argued, there are 
never enough comfortable chairs. 
The telephone is a good way to talk to people without 
having to offer them a drink. 

Your responsibility as a parent is not as great as you 
might imagine. You need not supply the world with the 
next conqueror of disease or major motion picture star. 
If your child simply grows up to be someone who does not 
use the word 'collectible' as a noun, you can consider 
yourself an unqualified success. 
You may be disappointed if you fail, but you are doomed 
if you don't try.

A human being is only interesting if he's in contact with himself. I learned you have to trust yourself, be what you are, and do what you ought to do the way you should do it. You have got to discover you, what you do, and trust it.

Success, in a generally accepted sense of the term, means the opportunity to experience and to realize to the maximum the forces that are within us.

The reason grandparents and grandchildren get along so well is that they have a common enemy.

In seeking wisdom the first step is silence, 
the second: listening, the third: remembering, 
the fourth: practicing, the fifth: teaching others. 
There's a fine line between genius and insanity. 
I have erased this line.

Underneath this flabby exterior is an enormous lack of character.

Happiness isn't something you experience; it's something you remember.

I envy people who drink. At least they have something to blame everything on.
The only difference between the Democrats and the Republicans is that the Democrats allow the poor to be corrupt, too.

The first thing I do in the morning is brush my teeth and 
sharpen my tongue.

Why does a woman work ten years to change a man's habits 
and then complain that he's not the man she married? 
Strip away the phony tinsel of Hollywood and you find the 
real tinsel underneath.

All our final decisions are made in a state of mind that 
is not going to last. 

The fixity of a habit is generally in direct proportion to 
its absurdity.

My biggest nightmare is I'm driving home and get sick 
and go to hospital. I say: 'Please help me.' And the people 
say: 'Hey, you look like...' And I'm dying while they're 
wondering whether I'm Barbra Streisand. 

Men are allowed to have passion and commitment for their 
work... a woman is allowed that feeling for a man, 
but not her work.
The giving of charity, which brings sustenance to a 
needy individual, is a life-sustaining act - one that 
effectively allows us to imitate G-d, 'the animator of 
the living,' and provides each person with the noblest 
direction in life - to 'walk in His ways.'
Jewish tradition perceives children as worthy and 
deserving of our greatest resources of time and energy 
to create an environment that is both physically and 
spiritually nurturing. For it is the children who 
embody the purity of intent, sincerity, faith and 
enthusiasm for life.

Education that is merely concerned with the transmission 
of information is doomed to failure. It must serve the 
greater and more noble purpose of cultivating the 
student's moral character. 
One of the main distinguishing features which set man apart 
from all other creatures is the free choice of action which 
the Creator bestowed upon him. Man can use this Divine 
gift either for self-destruction and the destruction of 
everything around him; or he can choose the right way of 
life, which would elevate him and his environment to 
the highest possible perfection.

Darkness, no matter how ominous and intimidating, 
is not a thing or force: it is merely the absence of 
light. So light need not combat and overpower darkness 
in order to displace it - where light is, darkness 
is not. A thimbleful of light will therefore banish a 
roomful of darkness. The same is true of good and evil: 
evil is not a thing or force, but merely the absence or 
concealment of good. One need not 'defeat' the evil in 
the world; one need only bring to light its inherent 
goodness.
The home should be perceived as a microcosm of the 
universe: The harmony that permeates the home and the 
family extends beyond, fostering harmony between families, 
communities and ultimately, the nations of the world. 
In the absence of harmony between one's own family, 
we can hardly expect to find harmony between strangers.

G-d enabled the Jewish people to live as sovereigns in 
the Holy land, the place of our forefathers - the land 
promised to the Jews by G-d. This reality places a special 
burden and privilege upon Israel's citizens and its 
government, to preserve the Jewish integrity of the 
country. Its educational system must be founded and 
inspired by Jewish values and the Jewish tradition so 
that its citizens grow to be proud keepers of their 
Jewish heritage.
In its relations with other nations, those responsible 
for representing its government in foreign affairs, 
must proudly assert its Jewish pride and traditions 
which is certain to enhance the esteem with which 
Israel will be regarded. 
Jewish law sets forth the criteria necessary for Israel's 
peace and safety: these can only be achieved from a 
position of military strength and secure borders. 
Any sign of strategic vulnerability is sure to encourage 
terrorism in Israel and abroad.

The secret of our existence is in our being 'a people 
that dwell alone' [Numbers (Bamidbar) 23:9], a people that believes in the one G-d, and leads a life according to the one Torah, which is eternal and unchangeable. 

One of the comprehensive mitzvot of the Torah is the 
mitzvah of ahavat yisrael, the love for a fellow Jew, 
which is said to be a great principle of Torah, and 
the basis of the entire Torah. 
The division of Judaism into 'Orthodox,' 'Conservative,' 
'Reform,' etc., is artificial. For all Jews have one 
and the same Torah, given by the one and same G-d, 
though there are more observant Jews and less observant 
Jews. To tag on a label does not, of course, change the 
reality of Jewish essence.
Every Jew - wherever he or she may find themselves, 
even a solitary Jew in the most remote corner of the 
earth - must remember that they are part of the whole 
Jewish people and representatives of the entire Jewish 
people - the one people ever since the Torah was given 
at Mt. Sinai, until the end of time. 

If you find a Jew who has love of G-d, but lacks love 
of the Torah and the Jewish people, tell him that his 
love shall not endure. If you find a Jew who has love 
of the Jewish people but no love for G-d or the Torah, 
work with him to fan that love, for he will come to an 
enduring love of G-d, Torah and the Jewish people.
If an individual is handicapped, he or she is challenged 
by Divine Providence to uncover hidden abilities and 
energies to overcome his or her handicap, and to attain 
higher levels of achievement than others who are not 
similarly handicapped. I strongly recommend a change in 
the term 'handicapped' - and prefer the term 'special' 
or 'excellent ones,' for it is their excellence that 
enables them to transcend whatever physical limitations 
they may have.
There are ethereal beings who bask in the Divine light 
of spiritual worlds. But it is human beings, who struggle 
with the darkness of a material world who shall ultimately 
arrive at the Essence.
If you see what needs to be repaired and how to repair 
it, then you have found a piece of the world that G-d 
has left for you to complete.  But if you one see what 
is wrong and how ugly it is, then it is yourself that 
needs repair.Talking from morning to night about sex has helped my skiing, because I talk about movement, about looking good, about taking risks.
Don't criticize in the sack. Discuss constructively later.

The test for whether or not you can hold a job should not be the arrangement of your chromosomes.
All of the men on my staff can type.
Looking at yourself in a mirror isn't exactly a study of life.

Imagination is the highest kite that one can fly.
People should tell your children what life is all about -- 
it's about work.
I think your whole life shows in your face and you 
should be proud of that.
The thing women have got to learn is that nobody 
gives you power. You just take it.
The thing women have got to learn is that nobody 
gives you power. You just take it.
I know how to do anything -- I'm a mom.
A good man doesn't just happen. They have to be created 
by us women. A guy is a lump like a doughnut.
I figure if my kids are alive at the end of the day, 
I've done my job.
Women should try to increase their size rather than decrease it, because I believe the bigger we are, the more space we'll take up, and the more we'll have to be reckoned with.

Women want men, careers, money, children, friends, luxury, comfort, independence, freedom, respect, love, and a three-dollar pantyhose that won't run.
I buried a lot of my ironing in the back yard.
You can say the nastiest things about yourself without 
offending anyone.
You have to learn the rules of the game. And then you have to play it better than anyone else.

Women have begun to see that if I go through that doorway, 
I take everybody through it.
Survival is nothing more than recovery.
Toughness doesn't have to come in a pinstripe suit.
If you want to catch trout, don't fish in a herring barrel.

Rose-colored glasses are never made in bifocals. 
Nobody wants to read the small print in dreams.

There are really only three types of people: 
those who make things happen, those who watch things happen, and those who say, 'What happened?'

Nobody ever drowned in his own sweat.Bragging is not an attractive trait, but let's be honest.
A man who catches a big fish doesn't go home through an alley.
At work, you think of the children you have left at home. 
At home, you think of the work you've left unfinished. 
Such a struggle is unleashed within yourself. 
Your heart is rent.

Old age is like a plane flying through a storm. 
Writing a book is not as tough as it is to haul 
thirty-five people around the country and sweat like 
a horse five nights a week.
I bear no grudges. I have a mind that retains nothing.

I wouldn't say I invented tacky, but I definitely 
brought it to its present high popularity.

The worst part of success is trying to find someone 
who is happy for you.

I succeeded by saying what everyone else is thinking.

Your anger can be 49% and your comedy 51 %, and you're okay. If the anger is 51%, the comedy is gone.
Success to me is having ten honeydew melons, 
and eating only the top half of each one.
I make decisions for my life, not the other way around. 
Besides, when you have a kid, you must weigh everything 
against time with your child.
Listening, not imitation, may be the sincerest form of 
flattery. . . . If you want to influence someone, listen to 
what he says. . . . When he finishes talking, ask him 
about any points that you do not understand.

Trust your hunches. . . . Hunches are usually based on 
facts filed away just below the conscious level. 
Warning! Do not confuse your hunches with wishful thinking. 
This is the road to disaster.
Accept that all of us can be hurt, that all of us can -- 
and surely will at times -- fail. I think we should follow 
a simple rule: if we can take the worst, take the risk.
Life is about not knowing, having to change, 
taking the moment and making the best of it, 
without knowing what's going to happen next. 
Delicious ambiguity.

I base most of my fashion taste on what doesn't itch.

Life is a great big canvas; 
throw all the paint you can at it. 

As life's pleasures go, food is second only to sex. 
Except for salami and eggs. Now that's better than sex, 
but only if the salami is thickly sliced. 
If you want to read about love and marriage, 
you've got to buy two separate books. 

When you realize you want to spend the rest of your 
life with somebody, you want the rest of your life to 
start as soon as possible.
Change is such hard work.

There are times when an individual feels he should do 
those things which only can and should be done by the 
many. There is room for only one Prime Minister, but 
for those who make the desert bloom there is room for 
hundreds, thousands and even millions.

Thought is a strenuous art -- few practice it, 
and then only at rare times.
It is only in Hebrew that you feel the full meaning of 
it -- all the associations which a different word has.
My friend is he who will tell me my faults, in private.To me, if life boils down to one thing, it's movement. 
To live is to keep moving.

The whole object of comedy is to be yourself and the 
closer you get to that, the funnier you will be.
Where lipstick is concerned, the important thing is not 
the color, but to accept God's final decision on where 
your lips end.
Men don't care what's on TV. 
They only care what else is on TV.
When I was a kid my parents moved a lot, 
but I always found them.
I found there was only one way to look thin, 
hang out with fat people.
I get no respect. The way my luck is running, 
if I was a politician I would be honest.
I just got wonderful news from my real estate agent 
in Florida. They found land on my property.  
 
We owe a lot to Thomas Edison -- if it wasn't for him, 
we'd be watching television by candlelight. 

Did you ever hear of a kid playing accountant -- 
even if they wanted to be one?
Money is not the most important thing in the world. 
Love is. Fortunately, I love money. 
It is more profitable for your Congressman to support 
the tobacco industry than your life. 
I take my wife everywhere I go. 
She always finds her way back.
How to drive a guy crazy: send him a telegram and 
on the top put 'page 2.'
When God sneezed, I didn't know what to say.
You can't buy love, but you can pay heavily for it.
I've got all the money I'll ever need, 
if I die by four o clock.

Don't listen to those who say, you taking too big a 
chance. Michelangelo would have painted the Sistine 
floor, and it would surely be rubbed out by today.

Sports is the only entertainment where, no matter how 
many times you go back, you never know the ending.
People with honorary awards are looked upon with 
disfavor. Would you let an honorary mechanic fix your 
brand-new Mercedes?

My doctor gave me six months to live but when 
I couldn't pay his bill gave me six months more.

Only a generation of readers will span a generation of writers.
People have forgotten how to tell a story. Stories don't have a middle or an end any more. They usually have a beginning that never stops beginning.
All lies and jests, still a man hears what he wants to hear and disregards the rest.
The thought that life could be better is woven indelibly into our hearts and our brains.
Most people don't experience what I fell into -- all the success. To make your living from something you love is really an unusual piece of good fortune. It's a privilege to make your living out of recording your life.

Assumptions are the termites of relationships.
Do you know what it means to come home at night to a 
woman who'll give you a little love, a little affection, 
a little tenderness? It means you're in the wrong house, 
that's what it means. 

If at first you don't succeed... So much for skydiving. 
If you're going to do something tonight that you'll be 
sorry for tomorrow morning, sleep late. 
My grandmother is over eighty and still doesn't need 
glasses. Drinks right out of the bottle. 
Some people ask the secret of our long marriage. 
We take time to go to a restaurant two times a week. 
A little candlelight, dinner, soft music and dancing. 
She goes Tuesdays, I go Fridays. 
The secret of a happy marriage remains a secret. 

When I read about the evils of drinking, 
I gave up reading. 

When I told my doctor I couldn't afford an operation, 
he offered to touch-up my X-rays. 
As a child my family's menu consisted of two choices: 
take it or leave it. 

Don't carry a grudge.  While you're carrying the grudge 
the other guy's out dancing. 
Golf is more fun than walking naked in a strange place, 
but not much. 

He that has eyes to see and ears to hear may convince himself that no mortal can keep a secret. If his lips are silent, he chatters with his fingertips; betrayal oozes out of him at every pore. 

I cannot think of any need in childhood as strong as 
the need for a father's protection. 

If youth knew; if age could. 
Illusions commend themselves to us because they save us 
pain and allow us to enjoy pleasure instead. We must 
therefore accept it without complaint when they sometimes 
collide with a bit of reality against which they are 
dashed to pieces. 

It is impossible to overlook the extent to which civilization is built upon a renunciation of instinct. 
Just as a cautious businessman avoids investing all his 
capital in one concern, so wisdom would probably admonish 
us also not to anticipate all our happiness from one 
quarter alone. 

Men are strong so long as they represent a strong idea 
they become powerless when they oppose it. 
Most people do not really want freedom, because freedom 
involves responsibility, and most people are frightened 
of responsibility. 
Neurosis is the inability to tolerate ambiguity. 

Obviously one must hold oneself responsible for the 
evil impulses of one's dreams. In what other way can 
one deal with them? Unless the content of the dream 
rightly understood is inspired by alien spirits, 
it is part of my own being. 

When making a decision of minor importance, I have always 
found it advantageous to consider all the pros and cons. 
In vital matters, however, such as the choice of a mate 
or a profession, the decision should come from the 
unconscious, from somewhere within ourselves. In the 
important decisions of personal life, we should be 
governed, I think, by the deep inner needs of our 
nature.
Marriage is not just spiritual communion, 
it is also remembering to take out the trash.
A bad liver is to a Frenchman what a nervous breakdown 
is to an American. Everyone has had one and everyone 
wants to talk about it. 
Have you ever seen a candidate talking to a rich person 
on television? 

Every time you think television has hit its lowest ebb, 
a new program comes along to make you wonder where you 
thought the ebb was. 

I always wanted to get into politics, but I was never 
light enough to make the team. 

Tax reform is taking the taxes off things that have been 
taxed in the past and putting taxes on things that haven't 
been taxed before. 
We seem to be going through a period of nostalgia, and 
everyone seems to think yesterday was better than today. 
I don't think it was, and I would advise you not to wait 
ten years before admitting today was great. If you're 
hung up on nostalgia, pretend today is yesterday and 
just go out and have one hell of a time. 
Whether it's the best of times or the worst of times, 
it's the only time we've got. 

Our struggle today is not to have a female Einstein get 
appointed as an assistant professor. It is for a woman 
schlemiel to get as quickly promoted as a male schlemiel. 

All sides in a trial want to hide at least some of 
the truth. 
The court of last resort is no longer the Supreme Court. 
It's 'Nightline.' 
Comedy is very controlling - you are making people laugh. 
It is there in the phrase 'making people laugh.' You feel 
completely in control when you hear a wave of laughter 
coming back at you that you have caused. 

Good deeds are better than wise sayings.
People think all I have to do is stand up and tell a few jokes.Well, that's not as easy as it looks.  Every year it gets to be more of an effort to stand up.

One should accept the truth from whatever source it proceeds.

God casts the die, not the dice.
Experience is what we call the accumulation of our mistakes.

If you want the present to be different from the past, study the past.
If you want to give God a good laugh, tell Him your plans.
I talk to myself because I like dealing with a better class of people.

Life is God's novel so let him write it.
Integrity simply means a willingness not to violate one's identity.
A salesman has got to dream, boy.  It comes with the territory.
If you want people to think you are wise, agree with them.
Sanity is a cozy lie.
Competing pressures tempt one to believe that an issue deferred is a problem avoided;
more often it is a crises invented.Obeying from love is better than to obey from fear.
A man is only as good as what he loves.

Let me listen to me and not to them.
The best index to a person's character is:
a) how he treats people who can't do him any good,
and b) how he treats people who can't fight back.
Moses ordained that Jews be addressed each holiday on the subject of that holiday, and he said to Israel: if you do this, it will be as if you established God's sovereignty.
Don't threaten a child: either punish him or forgive him.
We are generally more convinced by the reasons we discover
on our own than by those given to us by others.
To have a friend, be one.
Liberals feel unworthy of their possessions.
Conservatives feel they deserve everything they've stolen.
There is no such thing as a free lunch.
Those who submerge themselves in the desire for money are always in debt.
You don't have to be big to be great.
One who desire the attention of others has
not yet found himself.
Surrounding yourself with dwarfs
does not make you a giant.
The first focus in life here on earth is to be at peace 
with all men.
God is present whenever a peace treaty is signed.
We all live with the objective of being happy;
our lives are all different and yet the same.
Two are better than one, for if they fall,
the one will lift up his fellow.
I don't think of all the misery, but of all
the beauty that still remains.
Nature uses only the longest threads to weave her patterns,
so each small piece of her fabric reveals the organization of the entire tapestry.
The toughest thing about being a success is that
you've got to keep on being a success.
One thing about being successful is that I stopped
being afraid of dying.  Once you're a star you're dead
already. You're embalmed.
Don't be humble.  You're not that great.
You can fool all the people all the time if the advertising
is right and the budget is big enough.
There is only one way to find out if a man is honest---ask him. If he says 'yes,' you know he's crooked.A fool is his own informer.
I was thrown out of college for cheating on the metaphysics exam;
I looked into the soul of the boy next to me.
Truth rests with God alone, and a little bit with me.
Every dogma has its day.
All I know is I'm not a Marxist.
Against every great and noble endeavor are a thousand
mediocre minds.
The establishment is made up of little men,
very frightened.
Evil does not prevail until it is given power.
Few great men could pass Personnel.
Anybody who gets out of college having had his confidence
in the perfection of existing institutions affirmed
has not been educated.  Just suffocated.
The meaning of life is that it stops.
Only our concept of time makes it possible for us to
speak of the Day of Judgement by that name; in reality it is a constant court in perpetual session.
A politician is someone who will double-cross that bridge
when he comes to it.
How wonderful it is that nobody need wait a single
moment before starting to improve the world.
Men and nations behave wisely once they have exhausted
all the other alternatives.
It is easier to fight for one's principles than to live up
to them.
Speak to the earth, and it shall teach you.
Next to knowing when to seize an opportunity, the most
important thing in life is to know when to forgo an advantage.
The door of success is marked 'push' and 'pull.'  Achieving
success is knowing when to do what.
I've been rich and I've been poor.
Rich is better.
Fashions in sin change.
The art of living lies less in eliminating our troubles
than in growing with them.
Strength is not the absence of weakness but how we
wrestle with our weaknesses.
There is no true justice unless mercy is part of it.
It is not your duty to complete the work,
but neither are you excused from it.
A good intention is added as a good deed.
I feel that the greatest reward for doing is the
opportunity to do more.
Weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh
in the morning.
All education starts with forbidding.
Cherish forever what makes you unique,
because you're really a yawn if it goes.

He who promises runs in debt.
Competition brings out the best in products
and the worst in people.
Whether women are better than men I cannot say---
but they are certainly no worse.

Death is not the greatest loss in life.
The greatest loss is what dies inside us
while we live.
Those who do not grow,
grow smaller.

What grows never grows old.
It takes twenty years to make an overnight success.

Middle age is when a man is warned to slow down by a
doctor instead of a policeman.
A man likes his wife to be just clever enough to comprehend
his cleverness, and just stupid enough to admire it.
For every woman who makes a fool out of a man,
there is another woman who makes a man out of a fool.
Anyone who says he can see through women is missing a lot.
When a man who has been previously married marries a woman
who has been previously married, four people go to bed.

It's always something. . .
Life is a negotiation.
In the final analysis it is not what you do for your children but what you have taught them to do for themselves that will make them successful human beings.
Whoever teachs his son teaches not only his son but also his son's son---and so on to the end of generations.

From birth to age 18, a girl needs good parents, from 18
to 35 she needs good looks, from 35 to 55 she needs a good
personality, and from 55 on she needs cash.
The magic of first love is our ignorance that it could ever end.
No man can consider himself truly married until he understands every word his wife is not saying.
A curse?  You should have a lot of money, but you should
be the only one in your family with it.Nobody tries to steal your troubles and nobody can
take your good deeds.
The more charity, the more peace.

More people die from overeating than from undernourishment.
In all love affairs there comes a moment when desire demands
possession.
To be old is a glorious thing when one has not unlearned
what it means to begin.

The best minister is the human heart; the best teacher is time; the best book is the world; the best friend is God.
When the shepherd blunders, his flock blunders after him.
I can retract what I did not say, but I cannot retract 
what I already have said. 
Each penitent thought is a voice of G-d. 
The world is new to us every morning -- this is 
the Holy One's gift and every person should believe 
they are reborn each day. 
The virtue of angels is that they cannot deteriorate; 
their flaw is that they cannot improve. 
Humanity's flaw is that we can deteriorate; but our 
virtue is that we can improve. 

A generation in which human ideals do not improve 
must perish. 
People's good deeds are used by the Eternal as seeds 
for planting trees in the Garden of Eden: thus, each 
of us creates our own Paradise. 

With faith, there are no questions; without faith there 
are no answers. 
The purely righteous do not complain about evil, 
rather they add justice. They do not complain about 
heresy, rather they add faith. They do not complain 
about ignorance, rather they add wisdom. 
There is nothing in the world absolutely secular. 
The principal of the eternity of Torah bestows upon 
us the promise that it is possible to study Torah 
and to observe it not only at home or in the ghetto 
but everywhere in the world, be it the modern home, 
the laboratory, the campus or the industrial plant, 
in public as well as in private life. 

Religion is not, at the outset, a refuge of grace and 
mercy for the despondent and desperate, an enchanted 
stream for crushed spirits, but a raging, clamorous 
torrent of man's consciousness, with all its crises, 
pangs, and torments. 
Hard as the world is to explain with the Almighty, 
it is harder yet without the Holy One. 
Only G-d can give us credit for the angry words we 
did not speak. 
Rabbosai, the most important thing is to be a 
good person! 
A man should eat slowly, properly, even if he eats alone.
One who stands [in prayer] in Eretz Yisrael (the land of Israel) should direct his heart towards Jerusalem, if he was standing in Jerusalem, he should direct his heart towards the holy Temple.

To what does 'In the city of Gold' refer? To the Golden Jerusalem (crown) like that that Rabbi Akiva made for
his wife.

The trees of Jerusalem were of cinnamon, but when it was destroyed, they were hidden away.
Even during the time of Jerusalem's stumbling, men of faith did not cease from [living] there. 

Jerusalem will only be redeemed through [the merit of giving] charity.

There are three gates to Gehinam (purgatory) - one of them is in Jerusalem.

A snake or scorpion never bit anyone in Jerusalem and a person never said to his fellow there is not enough room for me to sleep in Jerusalem.

A betrothed girl in Jerusalem does not need to adorn herself with the scent of incense.

There were no days as glorious for the people of Israel as the fifteenth of Av [the Hebrew Month] and as Yom Kippur, when the daughters of Jerusalem would come outside with borrowed white garments and dance in the vineyards.

Whoever mourns for Jerusalem will be meritorious and will see its rejoicing and all who do not mourn for Jerusalem will not see it's rejoicing.

There were 480 places of worship (Synagogues) in Jerusalem, and each one of them had a school for Scriptures (Bible) and a learning center for the Mishna (the oral law). 

Jerusalem is like a city that people are friendly together; a city in which all [the people of] Israel are friends when the tribes ascend there for the pilgrimage.

In Ne'ilah [the closing prayer] of Yom Kippur, what did he [the Cohen] say? 'And Hashem will bless you from Zion and you will see the good of Jerusalem all of the days of your life.'

The Jerusalem of this world is not like the Jerusalem in the next world [in Heaven]. The Jerusalem of this world, anyone who wants to ascend there, may ascend; but the one of the next world, only those who are prepared for it may ascend.

Malchi Tzedek king of Shalem, said 'this place makes its inhabitants righteous?', so he called Jerusalem 'Tzedek' (righteousness).

Avraham called it Yireh (See) as it says [in the Scriptures], 'And Avraham called the name of that place Yireh Hashem' (See God). Shem called it Shalem (Complete) as it says 'And Malki Tzedek, King of Shalem.' The Holy One, Blessed be He said 'I will call it Yerushalayim (Jerusalem) like both of them called it - Yireh, Shalem - Yerushalayim.

One who guards his mouth and tongue, guards his soul from tribulations. 

Which man desires life, which loves days of seeing good? Guard your tongue from evil and your lips from speaking deceit.
The prevailing pilosophy of education tends to discredit hard work.
He who learns by Finding Out has sevenfold
The Skill of him who learned by Being Told.
Reviewing a lesson a hundred times cannot be compared with reviewing it a hundred and one times.
A soul that is sick, humble and subservient...is not capable of absorbing wisdom, particularly when subjected to arrogant and cruel masters.
If a student crams, his learning diminishes; and if he 'gathers little by little, it shall increase.' 
A boy must be urged on, with rewards appropriate to his intelligence and age, until he realizes that he must study because it is the will of God.
Don't threaten a child: Either punish him or forgive him.

Only the lesson which is enjoyed can be learned well.
A teacher should give his pupil opportunity for independent practice without suggestions from himself, and thus set upon him the stamp of indelible memory in its purest form.
Training through love breeds love.All your children shall be taught of the Lord, and great shall be the peace of your children.
Nations...borrow billions for war; no nation has ever borrowed largely for education.  Probably no nation is rich enough to pay for both war and civilization.  We must make our choice; we cannot have both. 
Where Jewish education is neglected, the whole content of Judaism is reduced to merely an awareness of anti-Semitism.  Judaism ceases them to be a civilization, and becomes a complex.
Where there is a chance to act against Jews, the highly educated joins in the chorus of the low, illiterate mob.
Each community must engage teachers for the children.
Teachers and school-children are society's most beautiful ornaments.
It is the supreme art of the teacher to awaken joy in creative expression and knowledge.
Academic chairs are many, but wise and noble teachers are few.
Let your children's tutor be constantly in your house, and pay him liberally.
An impatient man cannot be a teacher.

Teachers may not accept remuneration for teaching Torah, but may for teaching punctuation marks and accents.
One teacher is not sufficient.  Study with another, too.
An unmarried man may not be an elementary teacher.
Who withholds a law from his pupil robs him of his inheritance.
If a student finds his studies hard, blame his teacher.
There are three teachers: parents, instructors, and comrades.
If you see cities uprooted, know that it came about because they did not maintain teachers' salaries.
The Lord was pleased for His righteousness' sake to make the teaching great and glorious.
Only if a scholar is like a bed of spices, the perfume reaching others, will his learning be preserved.
To transmit wisdom to the unworthy is lilke throwing pearls before swine.
Who learns and does not teach is like a myrtle in the desert.
Teaching an unworthy student is like worshiping idols.
Where there's music, pour not out talk.
As a seal of carnelian on a necklace of gold is a concert of music at a banquet of wine.
Music is a universal language, and needs not be translated.  With it soul speaks to soul.Music washes away from the soul the dust of everyday life.
Music is prayer.  
O Music!  miraculous art!  A blast of thy trumpet, and millions rush forward to die; a peal of thy organ, and uncounted nations sink down to pray.
The essence of music is a revelation...It is spirit, yet in need of time, rhythm; it is matter, yet independent of space.
Music evokes he spirit of prophecy.
There are palaces that open only to music.
In the high spheres there are temples which may be opened only with song.
This song shall testify before them as a witness.
Sing, O heaven, be joyful, O earth, and break forth into singing, O mountains!
The morning stars sang together.
Nature is saturated with melody; heaven and earth are full of song.
The whole world is nothing more than a singing and a dancing before the Holy One, blessed be He.  Every Jew is a singer before Him, and every letter in the Torah is a musical note.
The inner history of a people is contained in its songs.
Who sings in this world will sing also in the next.

Through true song one may rise to the power of prophecy.
All melodies come from the source of sanctity.
O sing unto the Lord a new song.
I will sing unto the Lord as long as I live.
Song is obligatory in the ritual of the sanctuary.

Sweet are the songs of Israel.

Every people has its own melody...But Israel sings all of them, in order to bring them all to God.
When does a Jew sing?  When he's hungry.
It is a people that shall dwell alone, and shall not be reckoned among the nations.

You are a holy people unto the Lord your God.
As an olive tree does not lose its foliage in summer or winter, so Israel will never be lost, here or hereafter.
Israel is my son, My first-born.
The portion of the Lord is his people.
The Lord will not forsake His people.

Can a woman forget her nursing child?  Yes, even these may forget, but I will not forget you.
I will betroth you unto Me for ever.
Thou hast loved us, taken pleasure in us, and exalted us above all tongues.  Thou hast sanctified us by Thy commandments, brought us near to Thy service, and called us by Thy great and holy Name.
I have loved you with an everlasting love.
To hate Israel is to hate God...To rise against Israel is to rise against God...To help Israel is to help God.
I will take you to me for a people and I will be to you a God.
I have set you apart from the peoples that you should be Mine.
Whoever adopts these principles belongs to Israel, regardless of his national or racial origin.
It is in no arrogant temper that we claim to be the chosen people.  We thereby affirm, not that we are better than others, but that we ought to be better.
How odd of God to choose the Jews.
I have set you for a light of the nations.

The remnant of Jacob shall be amidst many peoples, as dew from the Lord, as showers upon the grass.

The destiny of God rests on the shoulders of Israel.
The world depends on Israel's piety.
Israel's mission is...to realize its ideals on its own soil and in its own State.
God appeared unto Abram and said: 'Unto thy seed will I give this land.'

Stones in the Land of Israel are heavier than in other lands.
The Torah cannot assume perfection except in Israel.
Anyone who spreads an evil report about the Land of Israel, even if it be true, is a spy.
Living in Israel is itself an atonement for one's sins.
Residence in Israel is equivalent to the observance of all the Biblical precepts.
Sinning in Eretz Israel is worse than elsewhere...It is like rebellion right within the king's own palace.The Land of Israel extends to the Euphrates River.

Reside in Israel, even among a majority of idolators, rather than outside of Israel, even among a majority of Jews.
Those who live outside of Israel may be considered heathen.
The air of the Land of Israel makes one wise.

He [God] will assemble the dispersed of Israel.
The ransomed of the Lord shall return...with singing to Zion.
Again will I build you...He that scattered Israel will gather and guard him as a shepherd his flock.
Every Jew has the right to immigrate to Israel.
Those who will find here a hold for their souls, an anvil for their hands, and vitality for their hearts, will build both their lives and the land.
There is singing again on Mt. Scopus.  And there is rejoicing in the Holy City of Jerusalem.
The Holy One will turn the Ninth of Ab into joy...and will Himself build Jerusalem and gather therein the exiles of Israel.
I have pitched my tent on these ancient hills and my desire is to tie together the ends of the thread that history broke.
This people is for peace and for health in a land full of fevers.
We must work and struggle to redeem our land, and fight with the courage of those for whom there is no possible retreat.
Palestine should be as distinctly Jewish as England is English.
The State of Israel will prove itself not by material wealth, not by military might or technical achievement, but by its moral character and human values.
The state of Israel represents and speaks only on behalf of its own citizens, and in no way presumes to represent or speak in the name of the Jews who are citizens of any other country.
In Basle I founded the Jewish State.  If I said it today, it would be greeted with laughter; but in five years, perhaps, certainly in fifty years, everyone will see it.  A State is founded essentially on the will of the people for the State. (September 30, 1897)
We, the members of the National Council, representing the Jewish people in Palestine and the Zionist movement of the world,...Hereby proclaim the establishment of the Jewish State in Palestine, to be called Israel. [May 14, 1948]
He who refuses a suppliant the aid which he has the power to give, is accountable to justice.
Wealth is fleeting, honor winged, but charity abides.

You shall not harden your heart, nor shut your hand from your needy brother, but...lend him sufficient for his need.
We should be grateful for the rogues among the poor; were it not for them, we would sin each time we ignore an appeal.

What you save from frivolity, add to your charity.
Shutting one's eye from charity is like worshipping idols.
To him who has the means and refuses the needy, the Holy One says: Bear in mind, fortune is a wheel!
A community which has no synagogue and no shelter for the poor, must first provide for the poor. 
Every Jew must either give or take charity for Passover.
Care of the poor is incumbent on society as a whole.
Your enemies you have to take, wherever and however you find them; but fortunately, I can choose my friends.

Who gives to the poor shall not lack.
By benevolence man rises to a height where he meets God.  Therefore do a good deed before you begin your prayers.
Turn not away your face from any poor man, and the face of God will not turn away from you.
If you have much, give much; if you have little, be not afraid to give according to that little; for you lay up a good treasure for yourself against the day of need.
Charity equals all the other commandments.

Charity is a magnet with more power to attract the divine influence than any other precept.
As lightning springs out of its concealment in dark clouds to flash through the world, so the divine light, imbedded in matter, emerges through charitable deeds...Thus, through charity, a sort of divine revelation occurs in the soul.
Charity and loving-kindness intercede greatly and promote peace between Israel and their Father in Heaven.
Charity is as potent for atonement as the altar.
A table spread for the poor is an altar for the rich.

The door which does not open to the poor will open to the physician.
What you do not give in charity voluntarily, the heathen will take from you forcibly.

Charity removes the stain of sin.
What you give to charity in health is gold; in sickness, is silver, and after death, is copper.
Draw out your soul to the hungry.
Do not humiliate a beggar:  God is at his right hand.
Charity demands the utmost care and diligence, for it may save a life.
Charity delivers from death only when giver and recipient do not know the one who the other is.

He gives twice who gives quickly.
Give graciously, cheerfully, and sympathetically.There are eight rungs in charity.  The highest is when you help a man to help himself.
What nation on earth has customs as strange as ours?  Our poor demand alms, as if they were collecting a debt, and our benefactors...invite paupers to their table.
Who gives charity with a smile is truly a right-minded man.
To boast of the help you gave a brother in need is to cancel the good of your deed.
Charity must be given in secret.
It is better not to give alms than to give it in public, with embarrassment for the recipient.

Let us supply the man in need also with that about which he is silent.
As between relatives and poor strangers, relatives come first.

Divided as we may be by religion, we are united by charity.
To promote peace, we support the poor of the heathen, visit their sick and bury their dead, along with the poor, the sick, and the dead of Israel.
If an orphan boy and an orphan girl need support, or apply for a marriage grant, the girl is cared for first.  The boy may beg, but not the girl.

It is permissible to assign charity to the poor on the Sabbath.
A charity pledge may be taken even on Sabbath eve.

Applicants for clothes are investigated, not applicants for food.

The great sages were porters, smiths, hewers of wood and drawers of water...accepting nothing from the community.
Let a stranger live with you, and he'll estrange your way of life.
Mankind is divisible into two great classes: hosts and guests.
Let all who are hungry come and eat. [Passover]
Whatever your host tells you, do.

A woman watches a guest more grudgingly than a man.

The poor does for the host more than the host for the poor.
Nowhere does the Torah say, 'Invite your guest to pray'; but it does tell us to offer him food, drink and a bed.
In the house of a wise man none is ever slow to perform the duties of hospitality.
Hospitality to wayfarers is greater than welcoming the Shekina.

The host breaks bread and the guest says Grace.
The Sabbath and holidays are the primary reason for Jewish endurance and glory.
The Sabbaths are for rest and the festivals for joy, not for fasting and weeping and crying.
To eat and drink on a festival in the company of your family without providing for the poor and distressed, is not 'the joy of the commandment' but the joy of your stomach.  It is a disgrace.
The river of life...flows from birth toward death.  Day follows day with wearisome monotony.  Only the holidays twine themselves together to form the circle of the year.  Only through the holidays does life experience the eternity of the river that returns to its source.  Then life becomes eternal.
Behold, this dreamer comes! [Spoken of Jacob by his brothers.]
Dreams lift up fools.
He who can reflect on his dreams, no longer dreams.
Dreams do not die if they bloomed once in the soul.
Dreams are like a microscope through which we look at the hidden occurrences in our soul.
Dream is the incomplete form of prophecy.
Every creed of man was once a dream.
Dreams are real.

A dream only reflects the dreamer's thoughts.
Depend not on dreams.
Good manners is thoughtfulness of God and of men.
In the midst of a discourse, speak not.
The world is governed not by morality, but by a hardened form of it, manners.
Without manners no Torah, without Torah no manners.
Good manners may in Seven Words be found:
Forget Yourself and think of Those Around.
Fine manners are the oil that lubricates social contacts...Ability is adorned by nothing as much as by affability.
The test of good manners: to bear patiently with bad ones.
The Torah teaches incidentally good manners.
Manners provide the lubrication without which frictions would develop.
Do not interrupt while another speaks.
Be ever decorous when you enter and when you leave.
The concept of history is the product of Prophetism.
History is the study of other people's mistakes.
A people's memory is history; and as a man without a memory, so a people without a history cannot grow wiser, better.
History is not merely the record of a string of occurrences.  It is an attempt to seize occurrences in their pattern.
Ages employed in making history have no time for studying it.
The history of the world is the judge of the world.
History has no time to be just...She keeps her eyes fixed on the victorious, and leaves the vanquished in the shadows.
The historian's special interest in the Jewish nation is due to its being the only one that is met with at evey turn of history.
The history of the Jewish people is like an axis crossing the history of mankind from one of its poles to the other.
Blood and fire and pillars of smoke---Joel (Yoel) 3:3---this is the whole history of the Jews; the rest is commentary; study it.
To see in history a moral purpose and a task for a people on earth is a great discovery, far more important than the accounts of battles and intrigues that have plagued humanity from time immemorial.
There is a friend that sticks closer than a brother.
Bring all men into friendship with you.
Be on your guard against your friends.
A good friend is a tower of strength; to find one is to  find a treasure.

A new friend is as new wine.
There is a friend who is one only in name.
Never weary of making friends.
When a friend changes, regard him as an enemy.
Friendship is man's greatest gift.
A friend will prove himself in time of trouble.
Let not a thousand friends seem too many in your eyes.
Who looks for a faultless friend will have none.
Beware of friends, not enemies.
False friends, like birds, migrate in cold weather.A friend in the market is better than gold in the chest.
Friendship is like a treasury: you cannot take from it more than you put into it.
If charity costs nothing, the world would be full of philanthropists.
The best charity is good will.
A man gives little if he gives much with a frown; he gives much if he gives little with a smile.
Whoever gives the poor money is blessed sixfold; whoever does it with a kind word is blessed sevenfold.

As a torch is not diminished though it kindles a million candles, so will he not lose who gives to a good cause.
Better is he who gives little to charity---from money honestly earned, than he who gives much---from money acquired by fraud.
He who closes his ear against the cry of the poor will himself one day call and not be heard.
The door which is not opened for a beggar will open for a doctor.
If a poor man asks for alms, and you have nothing to give, console him with words; for it is forbidden to chastise a poor man or raise your voice against him, since his heart is broken.
Charity cures heartaches.
Always help the persecuted.
Charity with a smile shows the donor's character.
Don't use the chutzpa of a beggar as an excuse for not helping him.
Little children, little troubles; big children, big troubles.
Little children won't let you sleep; big children won't let you live.
Each child brings his own blessing into the world.
You can tell a Jew by how he treats his children.
A child's tears move the heavens themselves.
If the world will ever be redeemed, it will be through the virtues of children.
A child's simple sense is a kind of wisdom.
For children, we tear the world apart.
Don't gossip about the children of others while yours are still growing up.
Children without a childhood are tragic.Not to teach your son to work is like teaching him to steal.
Don't limit a child to your own learning, for he was born in another time.
Teach a child good manners during babyhood.
It is easier to have children than to raise them.
Never promise something to a child and not give it to him, because in that way he learns to lie.
At five, your son is your master; at ten, your slave; at fifteen, your double; and after that, he is your friend or foe---depending on how you raised him.
Give every man the benefit of the doubt.
When you turn proud, remember that a flea proceded you in the order of divine creation.
Three possessions should you prize: a field, a friend, and a book.
The bride with beautiful eyes need not worry about her figure.
Every bride is beautiful.
Don't open a shop unless you know how to smile.
False scales are an abomination to the Lord; but a just weight is His delight.
In your town, your reputation counts; in another, your clothes do.
The man who does not respect clothes will not benefit from them.
If we do not help a man in trouble, it is as if we caused the trouble.
The man who has confidence in himself gains the confidence of others.
Never rebuke a man in such a way as to shame him in public.
Three things soften a man's heart: a pleasant melody, a pleasant scene, and a fragrant odor.
Before trouble comes, obtain advice; after it comes, advice is useless.
He who cannot accept reproof cannot become great.
It is cruel not to forgive one who begs for forgiveness.
When you come to a city, follow its customs.
It is hard to raise sons; and much harder to raise daughters.
When a sage dies, all men should mourn.It is nobler to visit a house of mourning than a house of feasting.
When the time comes for an accounting of man's deeds, it is too late to do anything about them.
Man enters the world with closed hands, as if to say, 'The world is mine'; he leaves with open hands, as if to say, 'I take nothing with me.'
It is better to eat herbs and fear no creditors, than eat meat and have to hide from them.
What is hateful to you, do not to your fellow man: that is the whole Law; all the rest is interpretation.
The intention is the foundation of the deed.
We must not appoint a leader over the community without first consulting the people.

The greatest misers with money are the biggest spendthrifts with desires.
The man who is not careful about obeying the law against stealing will be less careful about the law against coveting; whatever his eyes see, his heart will desire---and with a longing that can never be satisfied.
You can't drive away the darkness with sticks or weapons.  The only way is to light a candle and the darkness will disappear by itself.  Our candle is the Torah.
Where men truly wish to go, there their feet will manage to take them.
The fewer a man's words, the fewer his mistakes.

Where men truly wish to go, there their feet will manage to take them.
Poverty in a home is worse than fifty plagues.

It is a serious disease to worry over what has not occurred.
A village without a school should be abolished.
Men make mistakes not because they think they know when they do not know, but because they think others do not know.
God created the Evil Impulse, but He also created its antidote, the Torah.
Three things are good in a little measure and bad in large: yeast, salt, and hesitation.
Only the one who eats the dish knows how it tastes.
Without experience there can be little wisdom.
Faith is not only in the heart; it should be put into words.
A father suffers for the troubles of his son.
Our sages recommended that a father should spend less than his means on food, up to his means on dress, and beyond his means for his wife and children.
A man's father is his king.He who reproves men will get more thanks in the end than he who flatters them.
Flattery is permissible only to promote peace.
If you have a fine meal, enjoy it in a good light.
Regard as enormous the little wrong you did to others, and as trifling the great wrong done to you.
The man who cannot survive bad times will not see good times.
If you carry your own lantern, you will endure the dark.
Freedom is the world of joy.
The man who thinks he can live without others is mistaken; the one who thinks others can't live without him is even more deluded.
A man without friends is like a left hand without a right.
Question a friend: perhaps he did not say what you think, or if he did, so that he will not say it again.
Do not condemn your friend: you do not know what you would have done in his place.
Your best friend is the one who is a friend without expecting anything.
A real friend feels no need to excuse himself for some failing.
To pull a friend out of the mire, don't hesitate to get dirty.
To love God truly, you must first love man.  And if anyone tells you that he loves God but does not love his fellow man, he is lying.
Don't ask God to change the laws of nature for you.
Whether you do little or much, let it be out of good intentions.
Happy is he who performs a good deed: for he may tip the scales for himself and the world.
The one who causes a good deed to be performed is as meritorious as the one who performs it.
Deeds of kindness weigh as much as all the commandments.
Happy is the man whose deeds are greater than his learning.
The man whose good deeds exceed his wisdom is like a tree with few branches and many roots: all the raging winds will not move him.
The reward of a mitzva?  Another mitzva!
One mitzva (good deed) leads to another, just as one averah (sin) leads to another.
Whoever performs one good action gains an advocate, whoever commits a sin procures an accuser.Good deeds bring a man immortality.
See not evil in others and good in yourself, but the good in the other and the failings in yourself.
Good men promise little and perform much; wicked men promise much and perform nothing.
The man who has led a good life will find many allies.
Good men are hard to provoke and easy to calm.
Gossipers start with praise and end with derogation.
Even if all of a slander is not believed, half of it is.
He who overlooks an offense promotes good will; he who repeats a tale separates friends.
Gossip: nature's telephone.
Fish die out of water; men die without law and order.
The real guardians of a state are the teachers.
Pray for political stability, for if not for fear of the government men would swallow each other alive.
Pray for political stability, for if not for fear of the government men would swallow each other alive.
A government can fall because of one injustice.
If a great man says something that seems illogical, don't laugh; try to understand it.
As long as light comes from the great, the light of the lesser is unseen; once the light of the great disappears, the light of the lesser shines.
The man who can't accept criticism can't become great.
If you grasp too much, you cannot hold it; when you take a little, you can.
More die from overeating than from undereating.
A woman recognizes the character of a guest sooner than her husband does.
Hate is like a channel made by water: it widens continually.
The Holy Temple was destroyed because of baseless hatred.
If you will remember the end of all things, you will cease hating.
A man who hates men is hated by them.
Three things drain a man's health: worry, travel and sin.The science of medicine is authorized by God Himself.
God knows that the best synagogue is the human heart.
Any wound is better than a wound in the heart.
A clown may be first in the kingdom of heaven, if he has helped lessen the sadness of human life.
To help a fellow man may be to tip the scales (of God's reckoning) for the entire world.
The world is like an inn, the world to come like home.
Many pens are broken, and seas of ink consumed, to descibe things that never happened.
The Jews are God's stake in human history.
There are sparks of holiness in everything; they constitute our spirituality.
Anger in a home is like rottenness in fruit.
Immorality in a home is like a worm in fruit.
In his home, even a weaver is a ruler.
Like a bird that strays from her nest is a man who strays from his home.
The trip is never too hard, if you know you're going home.
There is a divine covenant in everyone's heart: to love his native soil---despite its climate.
All men should rise when a sage passes.
No labor, however humble, dishonors a man.
The crown of a good name is greater than the crown of learning.
As long as a man breathes he should not lose hope.
Hospitality to strangers shows reverence for the name of the Lord.
Welcome everyone---with joy.
The world goes on because of those who close their lips when they meet hostility from others.
It is better to be humble with the lowly than to share spoils with the proud.
I find humility a greater help to me than all my fellow men.
Wisdom begets humility.A faithless husband makes a faithless wife.
Whoever does no work will suffer all his life.
Man dies of idleness---and boredom.
For the ignorant, old age is winter; for the learned, old age is the harvest.
The ignorant think less clearly as they grow older; scholars think more clearly as they age.
The good die but live on, in the example they provided.
Live as if you expect to live forever, but plan as if you expect to enter the hereafter tomorrow.
Even one ear of corn is not exactly like another.
Men's features are not alike; nor are their opinions.
If a man does not plow in the summer, what will he eat in the winter?
In sleep, thoughts come to your mind to reveal the thoughts of your heart.
Where there is no knowledge there can be no insight, and where there is no insight there can be no knowledge.
The beginning of wisdom is to desire it.
The senseless man pours contempt on his neighbor; but the intelligent man keeps silent.
Burial in Israel is like burial under the altar of the Temple.
Israel is like a vine: trodden underfoot; but some time later its wine is placed on the table of a king.  So Israel, at first oppressed, will eventually come to greatness.
As everyone treads on dust, so does every nation tread on Israel; but dust lasts longer than metal, and so shall Israel outlast the others.
Why is Israel like a dove?  Other birds, when tired, rest on a branch; but when the dove tires, she rests one wing and flies with the other.
Myrtle is sweet to the one who smells it, but bitter to the one who bites it; so Israel brings prosperity to those who grant it kindness, and depression to those who afflict it with evil.
Sand mixed in bread injures the teeth: so will those who persecute Israel suffer for it.
When trouble comes into the world, Israel feels it first: when good comes, Israel feels it first, too.
A tent cannot stand without pegs and cord, and Israel cannot stand without scholars.
To dwell in the Holy Land tends to prevent sin.
A true Jew is distinguished by three characteristics: sympathy, modesty, benevolence.
No Jew, however learned and pious, may consider himself one whit better than a fellow Jew, however ignorant or irreligious.The best weapons of Jew are his prayers.
It is no challenge to die like a Jew; the true challenge is to live like a Jew.
A man's joy is greatest when his family is with him.
Judgment delayed is judgment voided.
Just as you listen to the poor man, listen to the rich man, for it is written, 'You shall not favor persons in judgment.'
Judge a man only by his own deeds and words; the opinions of others can be false.

Judge every man charitably.
To arbitrate is to temper justice with charity.
Knowledge that is paid for will be longer remembered.
To break an oral agreement which is not legally binding is morally wrong.

Just as it is forbidden to permit that which is prohibited, so it is forbidden to prohibit that which should be permitted.
When a man is able to take abuse with a smile, he is worthy to become a leader.

A place becomes known far and wide if it is the home of a great man.
Once an error is learned, it is hard to unlearn.

If you are a man of the sword, you can't claim to be a man of the book; and if you are a man of the book, you will not be a man of the sword.
Much have I learned from my teachers, more from my colleagues, but most from my students.

If you understand the why and wherefore of what you learn, you do not forget it quickly.
A man should not say, 'I will love the learned and hate the unlearned'; he should say, 'I will love them all.'
Do not say: I will learn when I will have leisure; you may never have it.
Move to a place where there is learning; you can't expect learning to move to you.
For learning, the ear is more useful than the eye.
Don't worry about tomorrow: who knows, what may befall you this day?
Life is a dream for the wise, a game for the fool, comedy for the rich, a tragedy for the poor.
Heaven is wonderful, but getting there is most of the fun.
The light of a candle is useful when it precedes you; it is useless when it trails behind.In everyone's heart stirs a great homesickness.
Man is endowed by nature with two eyes: one to see his neighbors' virtues, the other to see his own faults.
Where there are no men, try to be a man.
The power of reasoning, with which God endowed man, makes man capable of perfection.
There is no one who never stumbled.
We must always hold the reins of the animal within us.
Man is a miracle.
A man shows his character by three things: his tipping, his tippling, and his temper.
By nature we like the familiar and dislike the strange.
Men like the opinions to which they have been accustomed from their youth; they defend them, and shun contrary views: and this is one of the things that prevents men from finding truth, for they cling to the opinions of habit.
Condemn no man and consider nothing impossible, for there is no man who does not have his hour.
There is no truer index to intelligence than the way one acts at the table.
When a man marries, his sins decrease.
There is a type of meekness that brings a man to Gehenna: for instance, the judge who knows that other judges made an error, but says, 'Shall I put them to shame?'...Or the man who hears a congregation speak falsely and says, 'Who am I to correct them?'... there is a kind of humility which is not righteousness.
The mind of each man is as unique as his face.
Miracles don't happen every day.
Hope for a miracle---but don't depend on one.
A miracle cannot prove that which is impossible; it is useful only as a confirmation of what is possible.
Modesty is the noblest of all ornaments.
A modest woman has good children.
Men worry over the loss of their possessions, not over the loss of their years---which never return.
Respect an old man who has lost his learning: remember that the fragments of the Tablets broken by Moses were preserved alongside the new.
To learn from the young is to eat unripe fruit and drink new wine; to learn from the old is to eat ripe fruit and drink old wine.
Do not dishonor the old: we shall all be numbered among them.
Too honor an old man one should not sit in his place or contradict his words.The prosperity of a country can be seen simply in how it treats its old people.
When the going seems rough, look at the jewels you're carrying.
God uses a man's good deeds as seeds to plant trees in Paradise: in this way every man creates his own Paradise.
The child honors his mother more than his father because his mother affects him by her words---so God set the honoring of the father before the honoring of the mother; and the child fears his father more than his mother, because it is the father who teaches him Torah---so God set the fearing of the mother before the fearing of the father.
He who does not support needy parents bears evil testimony against himself.
The man who disobeys his parents will have disobedient sons.
Our passions are like travelers: at first they make a brief stay; then they are like guests, who visit often; and then they turn into tyrants, who hold us in their power.
Work for peace within your family, then in your street, then within the community.
If there are more than twenty-five children in an elementary class, appoint an assistant.

The ill-tempered cannot teach.
Man is capable of perfection---because of the power of reasoning, which God gave him.
The man who persists in knocking will succeed in entering.
Beware of discourtesy to the poor: The Lord stands near them.
Put all other sufferings in one side of the scale, and poverty in the other, and poverty would be heavier.
Wise men who are poor are all too often ignored.
A tiny fly can choke a big man.
A giant feels the sting of a bee.
The gates of prayer are sometimes closed, but the gates of repentance are forever open.
Do not hurry when you leave a place of worship.
You don't have to pray loudly; just direct your heart to heaven.
Unless we believe that God renews creation every day, our prayers grow habitual and tedious.
Prayers truly from the heart open all the doors in Heaven.
A proverb has three characteristics: few words, good sense, and a fine image.
A proverb without wisdom is like a body without a foot.
Don't run too far; you will have to return the same distance.As long as I do not utter a word, I am its master; once I utter it, I am its slave.
Everything is good---in its time.
When two men quarrel, the one who yields first displays the nobler nature.
The greater a man's wisdom the more will he avoid quarrels.
A carpenter without tools is no carpenter.
It is the power of reasoning with which God endowed man that renders man capable of perfection.
If there are no small ones, there will be no big ones.
One must not say to a man who has repented (and changed his way of life,) 'Remember your former transgressions.'

Consider every day your last and you will always be ready---with good deeds and repentance.
Don't criticize a wicked man who abandons his wickedness---and repents.
Happy is the man who leaves a good name.

What you think of others tells us what they think of you.
A place becomes known far and wide because it is the home of a great man.
The Sabbath was delivered unto you, and not you unto the Sabbath.
The Sabbath was given for the study of the Torah.
The Sabbath is the Queen of the week.
Some men are stupid: they stand up to honor a Holy Scroll, but do not rise to honor a sage.
Just as a small log may set fire to a large one, so do smaller scholars sharpen the wits of sages.
A sage takes precedence over a king, for if a sage dies, we have no one like him, but if a king dies all Israel is eligible to succeed him.
Whoever lives by Torah, good deeds, humility, and the fear of Heaven, will be saved from doom.
To partake of a meal at which a great scholar is present is to feast upon the refulgence of the Divine Presence.
A man who is not a scholar by temperament should devote his time to public affairs.
There are four types [of students]: the sponge, the funnel, the strainer, and the sifter:  The sponge soaks up everything; the funnel takes in at one ear but lets out at the other; the strainer lets pass the wine and retains the lees; and the sifter holds back the coarse flour and collects the fine.
It is imperative that most men work in [physically] productive occupations, so that the few who devote themselves entirely to learning may have their wants provided; in this way, the human race goes on, and knowledge is enriched.
Science, though it seems to waste Torah, actually confirms and clarifies it.A passage from Scripture can yield many meanings, just as a hammer splits one rock into many fragments.
Your secret is your prisoner; once you reveal it, you become its slave.
A man who does not own a piece of land is not a complete [secure] man.
If I am not for myself, who will be for me?  And if I am only for myself, what am I?  And if not now---when?
If I am here, all is here; and if I am not here, who is here?
Those who chase happiness run away from contentment.
A man of good sense guards his tongue and attends to his own affairs.
There is always hope for the man who is capable of being ashamed.
Shame is an iron fence against sin.
An undeserved title brings more shame than honor.
The sleeping cat doesn't catch a rat.
The prayers of the sick are more effective than the prayers of others, and are answered first.
If a word be worth one shekel, silence is worth two.
For many afflictions, silence is the best remedy.
Press your lips together: don't be in a hurry to answer.
I grew up among wise men and learned that nothing is better than silence.
Silence protects wisdom.
Both a boaster and a fool miss the fitting time for silence.
You may regret your silence once, but you will regret your speech twice.
Guard your tongue as you treasure your wealth.
The man who slanders hurts three people: the man slandered, the man to whom the slander is uttered---and himself.
It is a duty to say what should be heard, and a duty not to say what should not be heard.
A good man who speaks evil is like a palace next to a tannery: one defect destroys all the grandeur.
Slander is in the same category with murder.
Slander is worse than weapons; for weapons hurt from near, slander from afar.If others speak ill of you, let the worst they say seem a trifle; if you speak ill of others, let the trivial seem enormous.
God will accept repentance for all sins except one: giving another man a bad name.
Righteous lips cover up hatred; but he who lets out slander is a fool.
Even if a man is a rabbi, when his father enters, the son must rise [in the presence of his pupils].
The soul is the Lord's candle.
Wisdom is to the soul as food is to the body.
What is lofty can be said in any language, and what is mean should be said in none.
Consider the speech, not the speaker.
The worst of men is he whose tongue is mightier than his mind.
Man's chief superiority over animals is his power of speech; if he abuses it, he is no higher than they.
God loves those who do not insist upon their privileges.
Don't crave to sit at the table of a king; your own table is better---and so is your crown.
The sons of sages are not always sages---so that no one can think Torah is inherited, and so that the sages' sons do not hold themselves superior to others.
He who stiffens his neck against many reproofs will suddenly be broken beyond repair.
God forgets the man who stubbornly rejects proof that he is wrong.
He who studies but does not repeat his lessons is as one who plants but does not enjoy the fruit.
Study is worth as much as ritual sacrifice.
Happy is the man who devotes his time to study, and he who resists temptation.
A lack of accomplishment is the greatest suffering.
The man who puts his talents to selfish uses commits spiritual suicide.
If you bring suspicion on yourself, don't condemn anyone who thinks ill of you.
When a student knows that his teacher is able to answer him, he may ask a question; otherwise, he should not.
Where wisdom enters, subtlety accompanies it.
Before you take leave of a friend, offer some serious comment (in philosophy or law) so that he will remember you thereby.
If you talk too much, you talk nonsense.If you talk too much, you'll say what you didn't intend to.
A man's ear belongs to himself; his tongue belongs to others.
You may regret your silence once, but you will regret your talk twice.
The mouth is a door, and should be kept closed.
But how can you say, 'It was only talk, so no harm was done?'  Were this true, then your prayers, and your words of kindness, would be a waste of breath.
He who teaches a child is as if he had created it.
In teaching, do not favor the children of the rich---and teach the children of the poor without compensation.
The bad teacher's words fall on his pupils like harsh rain; the good teacher's, as gently as the dew.
Blessed is the son who studies with his father, and blessed is the father who teaches his son.
The man from whom people learn must be especially strict with himself.
A pupil receives but a fifth of the reward that accrues to the teacher.
Be very careful in teaching, for an error in teaching is tantamount to a willful transgression.
When I see no way of teaching a truth but one that will please one intelligent man but will offend ten thousand fools, I address myself to the one, and ignore the censure of the thousands.
Hidden wisdom and concealed treasure---of what use is either?
He who has not studied enough and teaches imperfect knowledge is to be treated as if he has sinned intentionally.
A forbearing man is better than a warrior; and he who rules his temper is better than one who takes a city.
He who spares his words has true wisdom; and he who holds is temper is a man of sense.
If a man cannot control his temper, how much less can he control others?
Man, who can make a harness for his beast, should make one for his appetites.
A man without a wife has no defense against temptation.
Never put yourself in temptation's path; for even King David could not resist it.
Be grateful to your parents; had they not been tempted, you wouldn't be here.
The most effective defense against temptation is this: Shut your eyes.
For a Jew to cheat a Gentile is worse than cheating a Jew; for in addition to violating the moral law, it brings Jews into contempt.

It is not the mouse but the hole that's the thief.To rob one's fellow of a penny may be as bad as robbing him of his life.

Do not steal your property back from a thief, lest you seem a thief yourself.
The man who steals men's confidence is the worst of thieves.
All thievery depends upon a receiver.
A thief is better than a liar, but they are both doomed.
Dive into the sea of thought, and find there pearls beyond price.
Thought serves as a mirror: it shows us the ugliness and the beauty within.
Thinking is more precious than all five senses.
Those who are pure of heart find new thoughts whenever they meditate.
Thought is nobler than words, because it guides them.
Though a plague last seven years, no one dies before his time.
Time is of short duration and flies away swifter than the shades of evening.  We are like the child who grasps a sunbeam in his hand, and when he opens it finds it empty, to his amazement, and all the brightness gone.
People say, 'Time is money' but I say 'Money is time,' for every luxury costs so many precious hours of your life.
The words of the Torah are compared to water, wine, and milk (Isaiah 55:1), because just as these are kept only in the simplest of vessels, so the Holy Words are preserved in the humblest of men.
The study of Torah outweighs all sacrifices.
The Torah can be interpreted in forty-nine different ways, and God instructed Moses, 'Decide according to the majority.'
Wine cannot stay sweet in gold and silver vessels, but only in cheap earthenware; in the same way, the words of the Torah will keep only with the man who makes himself lowly.
Like wine, the Torah pleases the heart and improves with age.
When two men sit together and fail to discuss Torah---lo! there is the seat of the scornful.  But when two men do discuss Torah, the Holy Spirit rests on them.
Where there is no Torah there is no good conduct, and where there is no good conduct there can be no Torah.
He who honors the Torah is honored by mankind.
He who fulfills the Torah amidst his poverty will in the end fulfill it amidst wealth; he who neglects the Torah amidst wealth will in the end neglect it amidst poverty.
If a man thrice guards himself against transgression, God guards him against it thereafter.
The only free man is he who engages in the study of Torah.
You want me to teach you the whole Torah?  This is its basic principle: What is hateful to yourself do not do to your fellow man.  If you want no one to harm you, do not harm him; if you want no one to take what is yours, do not take from him what is his.What is hateful to thee, never do to thy fellow man: that is the entire Torah; all the rest is commentary.
The more Torah, the more life.
The Torah is our life and the length of our days.  While loving and studying the Torah, we may be in great danger from our enemies; but if we gave up our studying, we should disappear and be no more.
Torah should lead to good deeds, not only to faith, not only good intentions.
How long are we required to study Torah?  Until the day of our death...Some of Israel's wisest men were woodchoppers, others drawers of water, some even blind men---and all of them studied Torah day and night.
The words of Torah heal the soul, not the body.
The Torah is truth, and the purpose of knowing it is to live by it.
Men who see Torah collapsing should have their eyes examined.
There are seventy ways of studying Torah; one is in silence.
The side that breaks a truce during a war will lose.
Little troubles are really not so bad---for someone else.
When you add to the truth, you subtract from it.
A truth does not become greater by repetition.
The Torah is truth, and the purpose of knowing it is to live by it.
The truth hurts like a thorn, at first; but in the end it blossoms like a rose.
Where there is no truth there is no grace.
Everything can be imitated, except truth; for imitated truth is no longer truth.
The more a man understands, the more is expected of him.
The man who does not lend money on interest, either to Jew or Gentile, walks with honor.
A giant in your eyes may be a dwarf in ours.
The wise man turns vices into virtues, but the fool turns virtues into vices.
I don't like those who are as 'pure as snow'---for snow is not long white and pure, but soon turns muddy and soiled.
Visiting is like rain: prayed for when absent, but tiresome when overdone.
Even on the threshold of war, we [Jews] are bidden to begin in no other way than with peace, for it is written: 'When you draw near a city to fight, first offer it peace.'
A lazy hand brings poverty; but the hand of the diligent brings wealth.The more money you have, the harder it is to part with it.
The tongue of the righteous is choice silver.  The mind of the wicked is of little worth.
He who walks honestly walks safely; he who walks crookedly will be found out.
He who seeks good will win forever; but he who aims at the harmful will bring it upon himself.
When they are in trouble, the wicked repent; once the trouble is over, they return to their evil ways.
It is beyond man's power to explain the prosperity of the wicked, or the troubles of the good.
The wicked are easy to provoke and hard to calm.
The quintessence of wickedness is foolishness.
Where there is no wine, drugs are necessary.
Wine is an unreliable messenger!  I sent it down to my stomach, and it went up to my head!
Wisdom is more precious than pearls.
To seek perfection in property or health or character is not a worthy goal, nor a proper cause of pride and glory; the knowledge of God is true wisdom, and is the only perfection man should seek.
Wealth brings anxiety, but wisdom leads to peace of mind.
Wisdom is God's power in action; for without it, everything is but theory.
When a wise man is angry, he is no longer wise.
The wise do not rest either in this world or in the world to come [for they always strive for greater wisdom].
Make your home an assembling place for the wise, and drink their words with zeal.
Poverty cannot disgrace the wise man, nor can lust enslave him.
The wise are pleased when they discover truths; fools are pleased when they discover falsehoods.
No man is wise unless he possesses three qualities: never to scorn one less learned who seeks wisdom; never to envy someone who is richer; and never to accept a fee for his learning.
A wise man is a greater asset to a nation than a king.
The truly wise man is as liberal with his wisdom as clouds are with the rains.
If you judge men by their beards and their girth, then goats are the wisest creatures on earth.
Everyone is wise---in his own eyes.
If you cling to wisdom, you cannot cling to [impure] desires.I am in constant fear lest I become too wise to remain pious.
The man who intends to lie will look for witnesses from afar.
A beautiful wife enlarges a man's spirit.
A beautiful wife makes for happiness and her husband's days are doubled.
Wives save men from sin.
Husband and wife are like one flesh.
Be careful to honor your wife, for blessing enters the house only because of the wife.

I never call my wife 'wife': I call her 'home'---for it is she who makes my home.
God did not create woman fom man's head, that he should command her; nor from his feet, that she should be his slave; but from his side, that she should be nearest his heart.
Be careful not to make women weep, for God counts their tears.
Pleasant words are as a honeycomb, sweet to the soul, and health to the bones.
Words are the guide to acts: the mouth makes the first move.
Looks explain words.
words are like bodies; meanings are like souls.
As the length of a tree's branches depend on its roots, so right words depend on a man's good sense.
A word without thought is like a foot without muscles.
A kind word is no substitute for a piece of herring or a bag of oats.
Men at work are not obliged to stand up when a sage passes by. [Other men are.]
The workman's rights always take precedence over those of his employer.
The man who works is blessed.
It is wise to work as well as study Torah; between the two, you will forget to sin.
To work for another man is often like taking honey from a bee: accompanied by a sting.
The world is in the hands of fools.
A faultless man is possible only in a faultless world.
Just as your hand, held before the eye, can hide the tallest mountain, so this small earthly life keeps us from seeing the vast radiance that fills the core of the universe.
