You will enjoy doing something different this coming weekend.
You long to see the great pyramids of Egypt.
You have a winning way. Keep it.
You will hear a kind word from a stranger.
Success and happiness will come your way.
You have a sincere desire to improve.
You will enjoy good health and financial independence.
You are soon going to change your present line of work.
You will soon bring joy to someone.
You will have a long and prosperous life.
Someone will need your help this month. 
Fame and fortune is coming your way. 
Simplicity and clarity should be your theme in dress.
You will need to relax today.
You'll be invited to dine in an adventurous place.
You will be admired for your internal beauty.
You have a natural grace and consideration for others.
You will make a change for the better.
Your talents will be recognized and rewarded.
You will reach a goal for which you have been striving.
Your talents will be recognized and suitably rewarded
If you look in the right places, you can find some good offerings.
Good news from afar can bring you a welcome visitor.
You will be fortunate in everything you put your hands on.
Executive ability is prominent in your make up. 
Today you will find something you have been looking for.
For today, keep your secrets to yourself.
You are surrounded by true friends. 
You will need new clothes for a special occassion.
Expect a change for the better in job or status in the future.
You'll be invited to dine in an adventure place.
You will meet someone famous.
You will travel far and wide for both pleasure and business.
You will have good luck and overcome many hardships. 
You may win a contest.
Good opportunity awaits.
You will be made stronger by adversity.
You will receive a promotion soon.
You will inherit money and jewelry.
Your help will be needed in an embarrassing situation.
You will have good luck in the springtime.
A small act of charity will go a long way. 
Keep your feet on the ground even though friends flatter you.
There is a tendency to carry activities too far.
At this moment, somone is thinking good thoughts of you.
Your home will be a great source of happiness.
There will be true and sincere friendship between you both.
You may attend a party where strange customs prevail.
Keep your feet on the ground even through friend flatter you.
Your love life will be happy and harmonious.
You display the wonderful traits of charm and courtesy.
Good health is in your future.
You will receive helpful information.
Look for new outlets for your own creative abilities.
Your financial situation will soon improve.
Try to clear up differences with associates.
You will be fortunate in the opportunities presented to you.
Unveil your ideas. Be ready to act on them.
Be content with your lot. One cannot be first in everything.
You will soon be the center of attention.
You will learn something new today.
Your financial situation will soon improve.
You will make a fortune with your friend.
Our first and last love is self-love.
You have an unusual equipment for success, use it properly.
Help! I am being held prisoner in a Chinese bakery!
The greatest danger could be your stupidity.
Because of your melodic nature, the moonlight never misses an appointment.
Never wear your best pants when you go fight for freedom.
If you get a fortune like this, here's a tip: Don't eat the cookie.
Suppose you can get what you want ....
What you left behind is more mellow than wine.
A starship ride has been promised to you by the galactic wizard.
Alas! The onion you are eating is someone else's water-lily.
Buy many dream boxes. Ask a friend to select one.
Someone is speaking highly of you.
You will exceed your expectations.
You will read some information that will help you.
You will be receiving an unexpected blessing in the next few days!
Follow your honest beliefs to stay strong. 
You are an artistic person. Let your colors show. 
New financial resources will soon become available to you.
You will take a chance in something in the near future.
You will receive a fortune cookie.
You are going to have some new clothes.
Someone will invite you to a karaoke party.
Don't behave with cold manners.
Don't forget, you're always on our minds.
Rest is a good thing, but boredom is its brother.
You are filled with life's most precious treasure. Hope!
Don't ask. Don't say. Everything rests in silence.
This is really a lovely day. Congratulations!
Everything is not yet lost.
You will put your data to good use.
Never stop at the weigh station on the road of life.
A friend in need will be out of your way soon.
Encouraging changes are not advertised on t.v. 
You will be made stronger by adversity.
You will make an important contact at a social gathering.
You will enjoy doing something different this coming weekend.
You will find fortune. 
You will accomplish more later if you have a little fun this weekend.
You shouldn't overspend at the moment. Frugality is important.
You will soon travel on a business trip.
Your place in the path of life is in the driver's seat.
You will follow your heart's desire. 
You will make a fortune with your friend.
Versatility is one of your outstanding traits.
You will be presented with a promising business path. 
You will travel to many exotic places. 
You will strengthen someone's love for you.
Your lover will never wish to leave you. 
Your work interest can capture the highest status of prestige. 
You may be conservative, cautious, and practical. 
You will be made stronger by adversity.
You will be pleasantly surprised by a close friend.
You will be free to take a break from your responsibilities.
Success and happiness will come your way.
You will be happy socially and in your work.
Your work interest can capture the highest status or prestige. 
You are contemplative and analytical by nature. 
You will have gold pieces by the bushel.
You will be fortunate in everything you put your hands to.
Wealth awaits you very soon.
A happy lot awaits you in matrimony.
Your talents will capture you the highest status and prestige. 
Stop searching. Happiness will come to you.
Know the right moment.
An invitation is headed your way.
You will have a chance at good fortune.
A new friend will bring you much happiness.
Someone will need your help today.
You will receive a promotion soon.
Your place in the path of life is the driver's seat.
A pleasant surprise is in store for you soon.
You will make someone happy today.
You will have a very pleasant experience.
Your intuition and guidance will be helpful.
You will use your ideas for great benefit.
You have a friendly heart and are well admired.
You will have a chance at good fortune.
You will be approached with an interesting proposition.
Your wisdom has kept you far away from dangers.
Your talents will be rewarded and recognized.
You will accomplish more if you start now.
An unexpected event will happen today.
You will soon achieve your financial goals.
Good things are coming to you in due course of time. 
You will make someone laugh tomorrow.
You will soon bring joy to someone.
