 Wisdom is like a baobab tree; no one individual can embrace it.
Wisdom does not come overnight.
Wisdom is like fire. People take it from others.
Knowledge without wisdom is like water in the sand.
If you are filled with pride, then you will have no room for wisdom. 
Nobody is born wise.
Wisdom is not like money to be tied up and hidden.
To get lost is to learn the way.
If you close your eyes to facts, you will learn through accidents.
Wealth, if you use it, comes to an end; learning, if you use it, increases.
You always learn a lot more when you lose than when you win.
The wise create proverbs for fools to learn, not to repeat.
By the time the fool has learned the game, the players have dispersed.
You do not teach the paths of the forest to an old gorilla.
Instruction in youth is like engraving in stone.
Ears that do not listen to advice, accompany the head when it is chopped off.
Traveling is learning.
Peace is costly but it is worth the expense.
When a king has good counselors, his reign is peaceful.
A fight between grasshoppers is a joy to the crow.
Milk and honey have different colors, but they share the same house peacefully.
When there is peace in the country, the chief does not carry a shield.
Speak softly and carry a big stick; you will go far.
An army of sheep led by a lion can defeat an army of lions led by a sheep.
Do not forget what is to be a sailor because of being a captain yourself.
He who refuses to obey cannot command.
A large chair does not make a king.
Where a woman rules, streams run uphill.
If the cockroach wants to rule over the chicken, then it must hire the fox as a body-guard.
Sticks in a bundle are unbreakable.
Cross the river in a crowd and the crocodile won’t eat you.
Where there are many, nothing goes wrong.
A single bracelet does not jingle.
If you want to go quickly, go alone. If you want to go far, go together.
A united family eats from the same plate.
If I am in harmony with my family, that’s success.
Dine with a stranger but save your love for your family.
Home affairs are not talked about on the public square. 
He who earns calamity, eats it with his family.
The old woman looks after the child to grow its teeth and the young one in turn looks after the old woman when she loses her teeth.
Children are the reward of life.
Hold a true friend with both hands. 
A friend is someone you share the path with. 
Return to old watering holes for more than water; friends and dreams are there to meet you. 
A small house will hold a hundred friends. 
Bad friends will prevent you from having good friends.  
 
It is no shame at all to work for money.
By labor comes wealth. 
One cannot both feast and become rich.
Money is sharper than the sword. – Ashanti
The rich are always complaining.
The poor man and the rich man do not play together.
With wealth one wins a woman.
A real family eats the same cornmeal.
Money can’t talk, yet it can make lies look true.
Money is not the medicine against death. 
Much wealth brings many enemies. – Swahili
What you give you get, ten times over.
You become wise when you begin to run out of money.
You should not hoard your money and die of hunger. – Ghana
Wisdom is not like money to be tied up and hidden.
Knowledge is better than riches.
Do not let what you cannot do tear from your hands what you can.
Beautiful from behind, ugly in front.
Ugliness with a good character is better than beauty.
Anyone who sees beauty and does not look at it will soon be poor.
If there is character, ugliness becomes beauty; if there is none, beauty becomes ugliness.
The one who loves an unsightly person is the one who makes him beautiful.
You are beautiful because of your possessions.
Three things cause sorrow to flee; water, green trees, and a beautiful face.
Patience is the mother of a beautiful child.
Judge not your beauty by the number of people who look at you, but rather by the number of people who smile at you.
Youth is beauty, even in cattle.
It’s those ugly caterpillars that turn into beautiful butterflies after seasons.
It is only a stupid cow that rejoices at the prospect of being taken to a beautiful abattoir.
A chicken with beautiful plumage does not sit in a corner.
Beautiful words don’t put porridge in the pot.
There is always a winner even in a monkey’s beauty contest.
An ugly child of your own is more to you than a beautiful one belonging to your neighbor.
Beautiful discourse is rarer than emerald
A woman’s polite devotion is her greatest beauty.
He who marries a beauty marries trouble.
Getting only a beautiful woman is like planting a vine on the roadside everyone feeds on it.
Roosters’ tail feathers: pretty but always behind.
She is like a road – pretty, but crooked.
If you find “Miss This Year” beautiful, then you’ll find “Miss Next Year” even more so.
He who loves the vase loves also what is inside.
Coffee and love taste best when hot.
If you are ugly you must either learn to dance or make love.
To love the king is not bad, but a king who loves you is better.
If you marry a monkey for his wealth, the money goes and the monkey remains as is.
Never marry a woman who has bigger feet than you.
Love has to be shown by deeds not words.
Marriage is like a groundnut; you have to crack it to see what is inside.
Hurry, hurry has no blessings.
To run is not necessarily to arrive.
A patient man will eat ripe fruit.
A patient person never misses a thing.
Patience attracts happiness; it brings near that which is far.
However long the night, the dawn will break.
The forest not only hides man’s enemies but its full of man’s medicine, healing power and food.
The man who counts the bits of food he swallows is never satisfied.
The food that is in the mouth is not yet in the belly.
The chicken that digs for food will not sleep hungry.
Food gained by fraud tastes sweet to a man, but he ends up with gravel in his mouth.
The grasshopper which is always near its mother eats the best food.
Rich people sometimes eat bad food.
You should know what’s being cooked in the kitchen otherwise you might eat a forbidden food.
A healthy person who begs for food is an insult to a generous farmer.
Cooked food is not sold for goats.
A dog knows the places he is thrown food.
Words are sweet, but they never take the place of food.
He who doesn’t clean his mouth before breakfast always complains that the food is sour.
When the food is cooked there is no need to wait before eating it.
Man is like a pepper, till you have chewed it you do not know how hot it is.
It is not the cook’s fault when the cassava turns out to be hard and tasteless.
A spider’s cobweb isn’t only its sleeping spring but also its food trap.
Those who are at one regarding food are at one in life.
Even the best cooking pot will not produce food.
If you find no fish, you have to eat bread.
The best of mankind is a farmer; the best food is fruit.
One shares food not words.
Nature gave us two cheeks instead of one to make it easier to eat hot food.
If you give bad food to your stomach, it drums for you to dance.
The forest provides food to the hunter after he is utterly exhausted.
You cannot tell a hungry child that you gave him food yesterday.
Rich people cook their food in a potsherd.
Water is colourless and tasteless but you can live on it longer than eating food.
The food eaten first lasts longest in the stomach.
Happiness is as good as food.
The goat says: “Where there is blood, there is plenty of food.”
They ate our food, and forgot our names.
Food you will not eat you do not boil.
Wisdom is wealth.
 The fool speaks, the wise man listens.
The heart of the wise man lies quiet like limpid water.
Only a wise person can solve a difficult problem.
In the moment of crisis, the wise build bridges and the foolish build dams.
A wise person will always find a way.
Learning expands great souls.
By crawling a child learns to stand.
He who learns, teaches.
By trying often, the monkey learns to jump from the tree.
You learn how to cut down trees by cutting them down.
What you help a child to love can be more important than what you help him to learn.
One who causes others misfortune also teaches them wisdom.
What you learn is what you die with.
When you follow in the path of your father, you learn to walk like him.
Advice is a stranger; if he’s welcome he stays for the night; if not, he leaves the same day.
Where there are experts there will be no lack of learners.
War has no eyes
Peace does not make a good ruler.
There can be no peace without understanding.
If you can’t resolve your problems in peace, you can’t solve war.
When two elephants fight, it is the grass that gets trampled.  
He who thinks he is leading and has no one following him is only taking a walk.
He who is destined for power does not have to fight for it.
Without a leader, black ants are confused.
He who fears the sun will not become chief.
Because he lost his reputation, he lost a kingdom.
A leader who does not take advice is not a leader.
Unity is strength, division is weakness.
It takes a village to raise a child.
Many hands make light work.
Two ants do not fail to pull one grasshopper.
A single stick may smoke, but it will not burn.
A family is like a forest, when you are outside it is dense, when you are inside you see that each tree has its place.
A family tie is like a tree, it can bend but it cannot break.
Brothers love each other when they are equally rich.
There is no fool who is disowned by his family. 
If relatives help each other, what evil can hurt them? 
Dine with a stranger but save your love for your family.
When brothers fight to the death, a stranger inherits their father’s estate.
To be without a friend is to be poor indeed.  
The friends of our friends are our friends.  
Show me your friend and I will show you your character. 
Between true friends even water drunk together is sweet enough. 
A close friend can become a close enemy.
Make some money but don’t let money make you.
He who loves money must labor.
Poverty is slavery.
One cannot count on riches.
A man’s wealth may be superior to him.
The wealth which enslaves the owner isn’t wealth.
Lack of money is lack of friends; if you have money at your disposal, every dog and goat will claim to be related to you. 
Dogs do not actually prefer bones to meat; it is just that no one ever gives them meat.
If your cornfield is far from your house, the birds will eat your corn.
One cannot count on riches.
He who receives a gift does not measure.
There is no one who became rich because he broke a holiday, no one became fat because he broke a fast.
Greed loses what it has gained.
If ten cents does not go out, it does not bring in one thousand dollars.
Wealth diminishes with usage; learning increases with use. 
Having a good discussion is like having riches
You must act as if it is impossible to fail.
One who plants grapes by the road side, and one who marries a pretty woman, share the same problem.
The skin of the leopard is beautiful, but not his heart.
A beautiful one hurts the heart.
The surface of the water is beautiful, but it is no good to sleep on.
You are beautiful, but learn to work, for you cannot eat your beauty.
Having beauty doesn’t mean understanding the perseverance of marriage.
Every woman is beautiful until she speaks.
A beautiful thing is never perfect.
There is no beauty but the beauty of action.
A pretty face and fine clothes do not make character.
A pretty basket does not prevent worries.
The most beautiful fig may contain a worm.
A woman who pursues a man for sex loses her spiritual beauty.
The cook does not have to be a beautiful woman.
She is beautiful; she has love, understands; she respects herself and others; everyone likes, loves and honors her; she is a goddess.
Dress up a stick and it’ll be a beautiful bride.
Even the colors of a chameleon are for survival not beauty.
When a once-beautiful piece of cloth has turned into rags, no one remembers that it was woven by Ukwa master weavers.
There are many colorful flowers on the path of life, but the prettiest have the sharpest thorns.
Despite the beauty of the moon, sun and the stars, the sky also has a threatening thunder and striking lightening.
Greatness and beauty do not belong to the gods alone.
Beauty is not sold and eaten.
Why they like an ugly person takes long for a beautiful person to know.
The beauty of a woman becomes useless if there is no one to admire it.
It’s much easier to fall in love than to stay in love.
Where there is love there is no darkness.
Pretend you are dead and you will see who really loves you.
A happy man marries the girl he loves, but a happier man loves the girl he marries.
Love never gets lost it’s only kept.
One thread for the needle, one love for the heart.
Love is a despot who spares no one.
Patience is the key which solves all problems.
Patience is the mother of a beautiful child.
Patience can cook a stone.
At the bottom of patience one finds heaven.
Patience puts a crown on the head.
Always being in a hurry does not prevent death, neither does going slowly prevent living.
As porridge benefits those who heat and eat it, so does a child benefit those that rear it.
One person is a thin porridge; two or three people are a lump of ugali.
Wine, women and food give gladness to the heart.
You cannot work for food when there is no food for work.
He who eats another mans food will have his own food eaten by others.
No partridge scratches the ground in search of food for another.
Don’t take another mouthful before you have swallowed what is in your mouth.
The impotent man does not eat spicy foods.
When the leg does not walk, the stomach does not eat.
One spoon of soup in need has more value than a pot of soup when we have an abundance of food.
The mouth is stupid after eating it forgets who gave it the food.
One who eats alone cannot discuss the taste of the food with others.
The man who has bread to eat does not appreciate the severity of a famine.
The hyena with a cub does not consume all the available food.
What one won’t eat by itself, one will eat when mixed with other food.
No one gets a mouthful of food by picking between another person’s teeth.
A housewife who complains that there is not enough foodstuff in the market should remember that if her husband adds to what is already available, there would be more for everyone.
If you watch your pot, your food will not burn.
Fine words do not produce food.
If I could see your face, I would not need food.
War is not porridge.
Slowly, slowly, porridge goes into the gourd.
If you are looking for a fly in your food it means that you are full.
A patient that can swallow food makes the nurse doubtful.
A bad cook also has his/her share of the bad food.
Things are to be tried, an old lady cooked stones and they produced soup.
Good music goes with good food.
However little food we have, we’ll share it even if it’s only one locust.
Eat when the food is ready; speak when the time is right.
When your luck deserts you, even cold food burns.
Good words are food, bad words poison.
If you see a man in a gown eating with a man in rags, the food belongs to the latter.
An abundance of food at your neighbour’s will not satisfy your hunger.
