
“Anything can happen in this world. It is a crazy place, but as long as we have each other we can overcome anything life throws at us. Just have to believe in ourselves and keep moving forward.”
“In every CHOICES that we choose, There's always a RISK; But always remember that there's also a chance”
“A mind with thoughts and ideas is like a search engine on a computer. But, You must type them in order to get results.”
“When your Achievements Start to Glow Criticisms will start to flow, it’s a sign where you have reached beyond your social limitation”
“Love is the full acceptance for someone or something without understanding completely.”
“Touch, inspire, matter and you will be remembered.”
“We are not victims by nature...we are programmed to be victims...for good reason...if we truly embraced our power, we would never be controlled. Live WISE~”
“We are not victims by nature...we are programmed to be victims...for good reason...if we truly embraced our power, we would never be controlled. Live WISE~”
“When i die i would rather be remembered for my accomplishments not my personality”
“Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma - which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don't let the noise of other's opinions drown out your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary.”
“If your actions inspire others to dream more, learn more, do more and become more, you are a leader.”
“Do not go where the path may lead; go instead where there is no path and leave a trail”
“If your actions inspire others to dream more, learn more, do more and become more, you are a leader.”
“Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma - which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don't let the noise of other's opinions drown out your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary.”
“Courage doesn't always roar. Sometimes courage is the quiet voice at the end of the day saying, "I will try again tomorrow.”
“If ever there is tomorrow when we're not together.. there is something you must always remember. you are braver than you believe, stronger than you seem, and smarter than you think. but the most important thing is, even if we're apart.. i'll always be with you.”
“Do not go where the path may lead; go instead where there is no path and leave a trail”
“Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live forever.”
“Courage doesn't always roar. Sometimes courage is the quiet voice at the end of the day saying, "I will try again tomorrow.”
“Don't cry because it's over. Smile because it happened.”
“To accomplish great things, we must not only act, but also dream; not only plan, but also believe.”
“Sing like no one's listening, love like you've never been hurt, dance like nobody's watching, and live like its heaven on earth.”
“Don't cry because it's over. Smile because it happened.”
“Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live forever.”
“Only as high as I reach can I grow, only as far as I seek can I go, only as deep as I look can I see, only as much as I dream can I be.”
“I've learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.”
“To accomplish great things, we must not only act, but also dream; not only plan, but also believe.”
“The tragedy of life is not that it ends so soon, but that we wait so long to begin it.”
“If ever there is tomorrow when we're not together.. there is something you must always remember. you are braver than you believe, stronger than you seem, and smarter than you think. but the most important thing is, even if we're apart.. i'll always be with you.”
“Only as high as I reach can I grow, only as far as I seek can I go, only as deep as I look can I see, only as much as I dream can I be.”
“If ever there is tomorrow when we're not together.. there is something you must always remember. you are braver than you believe, stronger than you seem, and smarter than you think. but the most important thing is, even if we're apart.. i'll always be with you.”
“Only those who will risk going too far can possibly find out how far one can go.”
“You see things; and you say, 'Why?' But I dream things that never were; and I say, 'Why not?'”
“Success is not final, failure is not fatal: it is the courage to continue that counts.”
“Only those who will risk going too far can possibly find out how far one can go.”
“Man cannot discover new oceans unless he has the courage to lose sight of the shore.”
“You have to learn the rules of the game. And then you have to play better than anyone else.”
“Inspiration exists, but it has to find us working.”
“Really great people make you feel that you, too, can become great.”
“I've learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.”
“Man cannot discover new oceans unless he has the courage to lose sight of the shore.”
“For every dark night, there's a brighter day”
“Life is like riding a bicycle. To keep your balance you must keep moving”
“You are the embodiment of the information you choose to accept and act upon. To change your circumstances you need to change your thinking and subsequent actions.”
“The best day of your life is the one on which you decide your life is your own. No apologies or excuses. No one to lean on, rely on, or blame. The gift is yours - it is an amazing journey - and you alone are responsible for the quality of it. This is the day your life really begins.”
“Work like you don't need the money, love like your heart has never been broken, and dance like no one is watching”
“Learn from yesterday, live for today, hope for tomorrow.”
“We are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars.”
“Learn from yesterday, live for today, hope for tomorrow.”
“What lies behind us and what lies before us are tiny matters compared to what lies within us.”
“And in the end, it's not the years in your life that count. It's the life in your years.”
“Stay the course, light a star,
Change the world where'er you are.”
“We are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars.”
“Reach high, for stars lie hidden in your soul. Dream deep, for every dream precedes the goal.”
“Try and fail, but don't fail to try.”
“The road of life twists and turns and no two directions are ever the same. Yet our lessons come from the journey, not the destination.”
“Keep away from those who try to belittle your ambitions. Small people always do that, but the really great make you believe that you too can become great.”
“I have found that if you love life, life will love you back.”
“The future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams.”
“What lies behind us and what lies before us are tiny matters compared to what lies within us.”
“To the world you may be just one person, but to one person you may be the world.”
“Everything you can imagine is real.”
“If you want to live a happy life, tie it to a goal, not to people or things.”
“All that we are is the result of what we have thought.”
“Try and fail, but don't fail to try.”
“One way to become famous, is to be yourself”
“And in the end, it's not the years in your life that count. It's the life in your years.”
“The experienced mountain climber is not intimidated by a mountain -- he is inspired by it. The persistent winner is not discouraged by a problem -- he is challenged by it. Mountains are created to be conquered; adversities are designed to be defeated; problems are sent to be solved. It is better to master one mountain than a thousand foothills.”
“Keep away from those who try to belittle your ambitions. Small people always do that, but the really great make you believe that you too can become great.”
“There are no failures - just experiences and your reactions to them.”
“If your actions inspire others to dream more, learn more, do more and become more, you are a leader.”
“Don't walk in front of me; I may not follow. Don't walk behind me; I may not lead. Just walk beside me and be my friend.”
“Fear less, hope more; Eat less, chew more; Whine less, breathe more; Talk less, say more; Love more, and all good things will be yours”
“Weakness of attitude becomes weakness of character.”
“Anyone who has never made a mistake has never tried anything new.”
“I’ve learned that making a "living" is not the same thing as making a "life."”
“We must become the change we want to see.”
“To the world you may be just one person, but to one person you may be the world.”
“For my part I know nothing with any certainty, but the sight of the stars makes me dream.”
“If you only do what you know you can do- you never do very much.”
“Leadership is based on inspiration, not domination; on cooperation, not intimidation.”
“Being deeply loved by someone gives you strength, while loving someone deeply gives you courage.”
“Genius is one percent inspiration and ninety-nine percent perspiration.”
“People often say that motivation doesn't last. Well, neither does bathing - that's why we recommend it daily.”
“I am responsible. Although I may not be able to prevent the worst from happening, I am responsible for my attitude toward the inevitable misfortunes that darken life. Bad things do happen; how I respond to them defines my character and the quality of my life. I can choose to sit in perpetual sadness, immobilized by the gravity of my loss, or I can choose to rise from the pain and treasure the most precious gift I have – life itself.”
“Perhaps our eyes need to be washed by our tears once in a while, so that we can see Life with a clearer view again.”
“Nobody can go back and start a new beginning, but anyone can start today and make a new ending.”
“Take the first step in faith. You don't have to see the whole staircase, just take the first step.”
“Take the first step in faith. You don't have to see the whole staircase, just take the first step.”
“For every dark night, there's a brighter day”
“Thousands of candles can be lit from a single candle, and the life of the candle will not be shortened. Happiness never decreases by being shared.”
“It’s never too late to be who you might have been!”
“Whatever you are, be a good one.”
“Really great people make you feel that you, too, can become great.”
“Life's challenges are not supposed to paralyze you, they're supposed to help you discover who you are.”
“Little by little one walks far”
“I've learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.”
“Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things that you didn't do than by the ones you did do. So throw off the bowlines. Sail away from the safe harbor. Catch the trade winds in your sails. Explore. Dream. Discover.”
“Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate. Our deepest fear is that we are powerful beyond measure. It is our light, not our darkness, that most frightens us. We ask ourselves, who am I to be brilliant, gorgeous, talented, and fabulous? Actually, who are you not to be? You are a child of God. Your playing small doesn't serve the world. There's nothing enlightened about shrinking so that other people won't feel insecure around you. We are all meant to shine, as children do. We are born to make manifest the glory of God that is within us. It's not just in some of us, it's in everyone. And as we let our own light shine, we unconsciously give other people permission to do the same. As we are liberated from our own fear, our presence automatically liberates others.”
“You must do the thing you think you cannot do”
“Being deeply loved by someone gives you strength, while loving someone deeply gives you courage.”
“All that we are is the result of what we have thought.”
“I've learned that no matter what happens, or how bad it
seems today, life does go on, and it will be better tomorrow. I've learned that
you can tell a lot about a person by the way he/she handles these three things:
a rainy day, lost luggage, and tangled Christmas tree lights. I've learned that
regardless of your relationship with your parents, you'll miss them when they're
gone from your life. I've learned that making a living is not the same thing as
making a life. I've learned that life sometimes gives you a second chance. 
I've learned that you shouldn't go through life with a catcher's mitt on both
hands; you need to be able to throw some things back. I've learned that whenever
I decide something with an open heart, I usually make the right decision. I've
learned that even when I have pains, I don't have to be one. I've learned that
every day you should reach out and touch someone. People love a warm hug, or
just a friendly pat on the back. I've learned that I still have a lot to learn. 
I've learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you
did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.”
“Life isn't about finding yourself. Life is about creating yourself.”
“Life isn't about finding yourself. Life is about creating yourself.”
“Life is really simple, but we insist on making it complicated.”
“I love the man that can smile in trouble, that can gather strength from distress, and grow brave by reflection”
“Our greatest glory is not in never failing, but in rising up every time we fail.”
“Remember that all through history the way of truth and love has always won. There have been tyrants and murderers and for a time they seem invincible but in the end, they always fall -- think of it, ALWAYS.”
“Enthusiasm is excitement with inspiration, motivation, and a pinch of creativity.”
“Life is like riding a bicycle. To keep your balance you must keep moving”
“Don't walk in front of me; I may not follow. Don't walk behind me; I may not lead. Just walk beside me and be my friend.”
“Be who you are and say what you feel because those who mind don't matter and those who matter don't mind.”
“If you want to live a happy life, tie it to a goal, not to people or things.”
“Courage is the discovery that you may not win, and trying when you know you can lose.”
“Reach high, for stars lie hidden in your soul. Dream deep, for every dream precedes the goal.”
“You must do the thing you think you cannot do”
“God allows us to experience the low points of life in order to teach us lessons we could not learn in any other way. The way we learn those lessons is not to deny the feelings but to find the meanings underlying them.”
“Life's challenges are not supposed to paralyze you, they're supposed to help you discover who you are.”
“Don't rely on someone else for your happiness and self worth. Only you can be responsible for that. If you can't love and respect yourself - no one else will be able to make that happen. Accept who you are - completely; the good and the bad - and make changes as YOU see fit - not because you think someone else wants you to be different.”
“To move ahead you need to believe in yourself...have conviction in your beliefs and the confidence to execute those beliefs.”
“If your actions inspire others to dream more, learn more, do more and become more, you are a leader.”
“Make the most of yourself, for that is all there is of you.”
“Before you speak, listen.
Before you write, think.
Before you spend, earn.
Before you invest, investigate.
Before you criticize, wait.
Before you pray, forgive.
Before you quit, try.
Before you retire, save.
Before you die, give.”
“The most important thing in life is to learn how to give out love, and to let it come in.”
“Whatever course you decide upon, there is always someone to tell you that you are wrong. There are always difficulties arising which tempt you to believe that your critics are right. To map out a course of action and follow it to an end requires courage.”
“We delight in the beauty of the butterfly, but rarely admit the changes it has gone through to achieve that beauty.”
“It is a curious thought, but it is only when you see people looking ridiculous that you realize just how much you love them.”
“Limitations live only in our minds. But if we use our imaginations, our possibilities become limitless.”
“You can't wait for inspiration. You have to go after it with a club.”
“If you see a friend without a smile; give him one of yours.”
“The biggest adventure you can take is to live the life of your dreams.”
“If you wait to do everything until you're sure it's right, you'll probably never do much of anything.”
“You have to learn the rules of the game. And then you have to play better than anyone else.”
“Here is the secret of inspiration: Tell yourself that thousands and tens of thousands of people, not very intelligent and certainly no more intelligent than the rest of us, have mastered problems as difficult as those that now baffle you”
“What we have once enjoyed we can never lose. All that we love deeply becomes a part of us.”
“If ever there is tomorrow when we're not together.. there is something you must always remember. you are braver than you believe, stronger than you seem, and smarter than you think. but the most important thing is, even if we're apart.. i'll always be with you.”
“Courage is the discovery that you may not win, and trying when you know you can lose.”
“In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity.”
“Every saint has a past and every sinner has a future.”
“There are no failures - just experiences and your reactions to them.”
“What seems to us as bitter trials are often blessings in disguise”
“You are never too old to set another goal or to dream a new dream.”
“We cannot all do great things, but we can do small things with great love.”
“Always look on the bright side of life.”
“I have found that if you love life, life will love you back.”
“Learn and grow all you can; serve and befriend all you can; enrich and inspire all you can.”
“The secret of getting ahead is getting started. The secret of getting started is breaking your complex overwhelming tasks into small manageable tasks, and then starting on the first one.”
“I shut my eyes in order to see.”
“I am a success today because I had a friend who believed in me and I didn't have the heart to let him down...”
“For my part I know nothing with any certainty, but the sight of the stars makes me dream.”
“I'm not gonna say anything inspirational, I'm just gonna f***ing swear a lot.”
“The mediocre teacher tells. The good teacher explains. The superior teacher demonstrates. The great teacher inspires.”
“Too often we underestimate the power of a touch, a smile, a kind word, a listening ear, an honest compliment, or the smallest act of caring, all of which have the potential to turn a life around.”
“You see things; and you say, 'Why?' But I dream things that never were; and I say, 'Why not?'”
“For beautiful eyes, look for the good in others; for beautiful lips, speak only words of kindness; and for poise, walk with the knowledge that you are never alone.”
“I've learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.”
“The noblest pleasure is the joy of understanding.”
“Only a life lived for others is worth living”
“Kindness in words creates confidence. Kindness in thinking creates profoundness. Kindness in giving creates love.”
“Perhaps they are not stars, but rather openings in heaven where the love of our lost ones pours through and shines down upon us to let us know they are happy.”
“People come into your life and people leave it... you just have to trust that life has a road mapped out for you.”
“Trust yourself. You know more than you think you do.”
“I do believe that when we face challenges in life that are far beyond our own power, it's an opportunity to build on our faith, inner strength, and courage. I've learned that how we face challenges plays a big role in the outcome of them.”
“The road of life twists and turns and no two directions are ever the same. Yet our lessons come from the journey, not the destination.”
“You can turn off the sun, but I'm still gonna shine.”
“Courage is resistance to fear, mastery of fear - not absence of fear”
“God has put somrthing noble and good into every heart His hand created.”
“We must become the change we want to see.”
“We should be taught not to wait for inspiration to start a thing. Action always generates inspiration. Inspiration seldom generates action.”
“A true friend sees the good in everything, and brings out the best in the worst of things.”
“Success is not final, failure is not fatal: it is the courage to continue that counts.”
“The secret of getting ahead is getting started. The secret of getting started is breaking your complex overwhelming tasks into small manageable tasks, and then starting on the first one.”
“In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity.”
“You learn to speak by speaking, to study by studying, to run by running, to work by working; in just the same way, you learn to love by loving.”
“When it comes down to it, I let them think what they want. If they care enough to bother with what I do, then I'm already better than them anyways.”
“Life does not have to be perfect to be wonderful.”
“Teaching is more than imparting knowledge, it is inspiring change.
Learning is more than absorbing facts, it is acquiring understanding.”
“Sometimes being a friend means mastering the art of timing. There is a time for silence. A time to let go and allow people to hurl themselves into their own destiny. And a time to prepare to pick up the pieces when it's all over.”
“Just don't give up on trying to do what you really want to do. Where there is love and inspiration, I don't think you can go wrong.”
“Don't listen to anyone who tells you that you can't do this or that. That's nonsense. Make up your mind, you'll never use crutches or a stick, then have a go at everything. Go to school, join in all the games you can. Go anywhere you want to. But never, never let them persuade you that things are too difficult or impossible.”
“Always do what you are afraid to do.”
“We shall draw from the heart of suffering itself the means of inspiration and survival.”
“I would rather live my life as if there is a God and die to find out there isn't, than live my life as if there isn't and die to find out there is.”
“If you can imagine it, you can achieve it; if you can dream it, you can become it.”
“Look at life through the windshield, not the rear-view mirror”
“Do more than belong: participate. Do more than care: help. Do more than believe: practice. Do more than be fair: be kind. Do more than forgive: forget. Do more than dream: work.”
“What we are is God's gift to us. What we become is our gift to God.”
“Live life fully while you're here. Experience everything. Take care of yourself and your friends. Have fun, be crazy, be weird. Go out and screw up! You're going to anyway, so you might as well enjoy the process. Take the opportunity to learn from your mistakes: find the cause of your problem and eliminate it. Don't try to be perfect; just be an excellent example of being human.”
“The value of an idea lies in the using of it.”
“Promise me you'll always remember: You're braver than you believe, and stronger than you seem, and smarter than you think. Christopher Robin to Pooh”
“Being deeply loved by someone gives you strength, while loving someone deeply gives you courage.”
“The true sign of intelligence is not knowledge but imagination.”
“The more anger towards the past you carry in your heart, the less capable you are of loving in the present.”
“Be faithful in small things because it is in them that your strength lies.”
“If you see a friend without a smile; give him one of yours.”
“The things that we love tell us what we are.”
“You may encounter many defeats, but you must not be defeated. Please remember that your difficulties do not define you. They simply strengthen your ability to overcome.”
“The mediocre teacher tells. The good teacher explains. The superior teacher demonstrates. The great teacher inspires.”
“Without faith, hope and trust, there is no promise for the future, and without a promising future, life has no direction, no meaning and no justification.”
“The mediocre teacher tells. The good teacher explains. The superior teacher demonstrates. The great teacher inspires.”
“Live life fully while you're here. Experience everything. Take care of yourself and your friends. Have fun, be crazy, be weird. Go out and screw up! You're going to anyway, so you might as well enjoy the process. Take the opportunity to learn from your mistakes: find the cause of your problem and eliminate it. Don't try to be perfect; just be an excellent example of being human.”
“If my mind can conceive it, and my heart can believe it, I know I can achieve it.”
“Hold fast to dreams, For if dreams die, Life is a broken-winged bird that cannot fly, Hold fast to dreams, For if dreams go, Life is a barren field, Frozen with snow”
“What seems to us as bitter trials are often blessings in disguise”
“Fear less, hope more; Eat less, chew more; Whine less, breathe more; Talk less, say more; Love more, and all good things will be yours”
“All our dreams can come true...if we have the courage to pursue them.”
“Families are the compass that guide us. They are the inspiration to reach great heights, and our comfort when we occasionally falter.”
“Before you speak, think -Is it necessary? Is it true? Is it kind? Will it hurt anyone? Will it improve on the silence?”
“Great spirits have always encountered violent opposition from mediocre minds.”
“It takes a lot of courage to show your dreams to someone else.”
“Doesn't matter what other people do. The only competition you should beat is yourself. So strive to be better each day.”
“In life you need either inspiration or desperation.”
“I know quite certainly that I myself have no special talent; curiosity, obsession and dogged endurance, combined with self-criticism, have brought me to my ideas.”
“The best thing for being sad,” replied Merlyn, beginning to puff and blow, “is to learn something. That is the only thing that never fails. You may grow old and trembling in your anatomies, you may lie awake at night listening to the disorder of your veins, you may miss your only love, you may see the world about you devastated by evil lunatics, or know your honour trampled in the sewers of baser minds. There is only one thing for it then — to learn. Learn why the world wags and what wags it. That is the only thing which the mind can never exhaust, never alienate, never be tortured by, never fear or distrust, and never dream of regretting."”
“The experienced mountain climber is not intimidated by a mountain -- he is inspired by it. The persistent winner is not discouraged by a problem -- he is challenged by it. Mountains are created to be conquered; adversities are designed to be defeated; problems are sent to be solved. It is better to master one mountain than a thousand foothills.”
“When the solution is simple, God is answering.”
“If the essence of my being has caused a smile to have appeared upon your face or a touch of joy within your heart.Then in living - I have made my mark.”
“God gave us the gift of life; it is up to us to give ourselves the gift of living well.”
“God, grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, the courage to change the things I can, and the wisdom to know the difference.”
“He who risks and fails can be forgiven. He who never risks and never fails is a failure in his whole being.”
“The faster you'll fall, the higher you'll fly.”
“Kind words can be short and easy to speak, but their echoes are truly endless.”
“Promise me you'll always remember that you're braver than you believe, stronger than you seem, and smarter than you think.”
“A pessimist sees the difficulty in every opportunity; an optimist sees the opportunity in every difficulty.”
“You can't always get what you want, but if you try sometimes, you might find, you get what you need”
“There can be no hope when there lacks interest for better. There can be no trust when there lacks confirmation of truth. There can be no faith when there lacks complete confidence of purpose.”
“For every minute you are angry you lose sixty seconds of happiness.”
“You may encounter many defeats, but you must not be defeated. Please remember that your difficulties do not define you. They simply strengthen your ability to overcome.”
“The man who removes a mountain begins by carrying away small stones.”
“The mediocre teacher tells. The good teacher explains. The superior teacher demonstrates. The great teacher inspires.”
“When I stand before God at the end of my life, I would hope that I would not have a single bit of talent left, and could say, "I used everything you gave me.”
“Weakness of attitude becomes weakness of character.”
“The purpose of life is not to be happy. It is to be useful, to be honorable, to be compassionate, to have it make some difference that you have lived and lived well.”
“When you can do the common things of life in an uncommon way, you will command the attention of the world”
“They who lack talent expect things to happen without effort. They ascribe failure to a lack of inspiration or ability, or to misfortune, rather than to insufficient application. At the core of every true talent there is an awareness of the difficulties inherent in any achievement, and the confidence that by persistence and patience something worthwhile will be realized. Thus talent is a species of vigor.”
“The ideals which have lighted my way, and time after time have given me new courage to face life cheerfully have been kindness, beauty, and truth”
“I love those who can smile in trouble, who can gather strength from distress, and grow brave by reflection.”
“While I take inspiration from the past, like most Americans, I live for the future.”
“You yourself, as much as anybody in the entire universe, deserve your love and affection.”
“Once we accept our limits, we go beyond them.”
“It is every man's obligation to put back into the world at least the equivalent of what he takes out of it.”
“Better keep yourself clean and bright. You are the window through which you must see the world.”
“Many people will walk in and out of your life, but only true friends will leave footprints in your heart”
“Today you are You, that is truer than true. There is no one alive who is Youer than You.”
“A friendship that can end never really began”
“When one door closes, another opens. But we often look so regretfully upon the closed door that we don't see the one that has opened for us.”
“We delight in the beauty of the butterfly, but rarely admit the changes it has gone through to achieve that beauty.”
“There are thoughts which are prayers. There are moments when, whatever the posture of the body, the soul is on its knees.”
“Logic will get you from A to B. Imagination will take you everywhere.”
“If you want to live a happy life, tie it to a goal, not to people or things.”
“Love me when I least deserve it, because that's when I really need it.”
“Unless someone like you cares a whole awful lot, nothing is going to get better. It's not.”
“The secret of health for both mind and body is not to mourn for the past, worry about the future, or anticipate troubles, but to live in the present moment wisely and earnestly.”
“In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity.”
“We make a living by what we get, but we make a life by what we give.”
“There are thoughts which are prayers. There are moments when, whatever the posture of the body, the soul is on its knees.”
“A friend knows the song in my heart and sings it to me when my memory fails.”
“Museums and art stores are also sources of pleasure and inspiration. Doubtless it will seem strange to many that the hand unaided by sight can feel action, sentiment, beauty in the cold marble; and yet it is true that I derive genuine pleasure from touching great works of art. As my finger tips trace line and curve, they discover the thought and emotion which the artist has portrayed.”
“The greatest good you can do for another is not just to share your riches but to reveal to him his own.”
“Our truest life is when we are in dreams awake.”
“I am responsible. Although I may not be able to prevent the worst from happening, I am responsible for my attitude toward the inevitable misfortunes that darken life. Bad things do happen; how I respond to them defines my character and the quality of my life. I can choose to sit in perpetual sadness, immobilized by the gravity of my loss, or I can choose to rise from the pain and treasure the most precious gift I have – life itself.”
“When you are dispirited, held back, beat down and you have no one,you can give up, give in, or you can find those things you need to stand within yourself.If no one else believes in you, then you must believe in yourself.If you can not get the love you need from others, you must make room in your heart and give that love to yourself.You must accept yourself exactly as you are, all your flaws, all your faults, all your dreams.”
“Risk is essential. There is not growth of inspiration in staying within what is safe and comfortable. Once you find out what you do best, why not try something else?”
“In bed my real love has always been the sleep that rescued me by allowing me to dream.”
“Kindness in words creates confidence. Kindness in thinking creates profoundness. Kindness in giving creates love.”
“Much more happiness is to be found in the world than gloomy eyes discover.”
“Only as high as I reach can I grow, only as far as I seek can I go, only as deep as I look can I see, only as much as I dream can I be.”
“Success is a welcomed gift for the uninhibited mind.”
“Limitations live only in our minds. But if we use our imaginations, our possibilities become limitless.”
“Anything can happen in this world. It is a crazy place, but as long as we have each other we can overcome anything life throws at us. Just have to believe in ourselves and keep moving forward.”
“I would much rather have regrets about not doing what people said, than regretting not doing what my heart led me to and wondering what life had been like if I'd just been myself.”
“When you love people and have the desire to make a profound, positive impact
upon the world, then will you have accomplished the meaning to live.”
“There are many things in life that will catch your eye, but only a few will catch your heart...pursue those.”
“Rivers know this: there is no hurry. We shall get there some day.”
“We may encounter many defeats but we must not be defeated.”
“Kindness is a language which the deaf can hear and the and the blind can see”
“Be ashamed to die until you have won some victory for mankind”
“Love me when I least deserve it, because that's when I really need it.”
“Our lives a series of defining moments,
strung together by passing time.
Surrender fully to this moment,
because it is not the moment itself that defines us,
but how we choose to live in it.”
“We all at certain times in our lives find ourselves broken. True strength is found in picking up the pieces.”
“The things that one most wants to do are the things that are probably most worth doing.”
“Never forget the three powerful resources you always have available to you: love, prayer, and forgiveness.”
“Never be afraid to trust an unknown future to a known God.”
“And the day came when the risk to remain tight in a bud was more painful than the risk it took to blossom.”
“Do the right thing. It will gratify some people and astonish the rest.”
“Method is much, technique is much, but inspiration is even more.”
“I'm not a prophet or a stone aged man, just a mortal with potential of a superman. I'm living on.”
“As an inspiration to the author, I do not think the cat can be over-estimated. He suggests so much grace, power, beauty, motion, mysticism. I do not wonder that many writers love cats; I am only surprised that all do not.”
“It is one of the most beautiful compensations of life, that no man can sincerely try to help another without helping himself”
“Promise me you'll always remember: You're braver than you believe, and stronger than you seem, and smarter than you think. Christopher Robin to Pooh”
“You will know what to live for when you determine what you're willing to die for.”
“Enthusiasm is excitement with inspiration, motivation, and a pinch of creativity.”
“I told my psychiatrist that everyone hates me. He said I was being ridiculous - everyone hasn't met me yet.”
“The world is not respectable; it is mortal, tormented, confused, deluded forever; but it is shot through with beauty, with love, with glints of courage and laughter; and in these, the spirit blooms.”
“The biggest adventure you can take is to live the life of your dreams.”
“There are many things in life that will catch your eye, but only a few will catch your heart...pursue those.”
“Do not lose hold of your dreams or asprirations. For if you do, you may still exist but you have ceased to live.”
“When you are afraid to act for fear of being wrong, then you have ignored the chance of doing right.”
“Strive not to be a success, but rather to be of value.”
“No one was ever great without some portion of divine inspiration”
“Now, bring me that horizon.”
“Don’t ask what the world needs. Ask what makes you come alive, and go do it. Because what the world needs is people who have come alive.”
“The difference between school and life? In school, you're taught a lesson and then given a test. In life, you're given a test that teaches you a lesson.”
“Nobody can go back and start a new beginning, but anyone can start today and make a new ending.”
“Love is a fruit in season at all times, and in reach of every hand.”
“The function of leadership is to produce more leaders, not more followers.”
“We must all suffer from one of two pains: the pain of discipline or the pain of regret. The difference is discipline weighs ounces while regret weighs tons.”
“A woman whose smile is open and whose expression is glad has a kind of beauty no matter what she wears.”
“Sometimes being a friend means mastering the art of timing. There is a time for silence. A time to let go and allow people to hurl themselves into their own destiny. And a time to prepare to pick up the pieces when it's all over.”
“I will tell you what I have learned myself. For me, a long five or six mile walk helps. And one must go alone and every day.”
“I am only one, but still I am one. I cannot do everything, but still I can do something; and because I cannot do everything, I will not refuse to do something that I can do.”
“If you judge people, you have no time to love them.”
“Positive thinking will let you do everything better than negative thinking will.”
“Our truest life is when we are in dreams awake.”
“Life is a gift. Never take it for granted.”
“I’ve learned that making a "living" is not the same thing as making a "life."”
“Wealth is not a matter of intelligence it's a matter of inspiration.”
“We come to love not by finding a perfect person, but by learning to see an imperfect person perfectly”
“Uncertainty and mystery are energies of life. Don't let them scare you unduly, for they keep boredom at bay and spark creativity.”
“The best thing for being sad,” replied Merlyn, beginning to puff and blow, “is to learn something. That is the only thing that never fails. You may grow old and trembling in your anatomies, you may lie awake at night listening to the disorder of your veins, you may miss your only love, you may see the world about you devastated by evil lunatics, or know your honour trampled in the sewers of baser minds. There is only one thing for it then — to learn. Learn why the world wags and what wags it. That is the only thing which the mind can never exhaust, never alienate, never be tortured by, never fear or distrust, and never dream of regretting."”
“Strength does not come from physical capacity. It comes from an indomitable will.”
“Confidence imparts a wonderful inspiration to its possessor”
“Do or do not... there is no try.”
“We waste time looking for the perfect lover, instead of creating the perfect love.”
“If you have enough time to waste, try giving it to someone who have moments to live.”
“The good teacher discovers the natural gifts of his pupils and liberates them by the stimulating influence of the inspiration that he can impart. The true leader makes his followers twice the men they were before.”
“People are always blaming their circumstances for what they are. I don't believe in circumstances. The people who get on in this world are the people who get up and look for the circumstances they want, and if they can't find them, make them”
“We must accept finite disappointment, but never lose infinite hope.”
“I write when I'm inspired, and I see to it that I'm inspired at nine o'clock every morning”
“We are not defined by our trials,
but by how we face them.
We are all afraid; bravery is a choice,
that though you may lose, you shall never be defeated.”
“It's not what we eat but what we digest that makes us strong; not what we gain but what we save that makes us rich; not what we read but what we remember that makes us learned; and not what we profess but what we practice that gives us integrity.”
“Teaching is more than imparting knowledge, it is inspiring change.
Learning is more than absorbing facts, it is acquiring understanding.”
“You CAN be all you imagine yourself to be. You WILL be everything you believe you are worth being.”
“What does not destroy me, makes me stronger.”
“Unless you try to do something beyond what you have already mastered, you will never grow.”
“The only thing impossible is the impossibility of the impossible”
“Ordinary riches can be stolen, real riches cannot. In your soul are infinitely precious things that cannot be taken from you.”
“The soldier who fights to death never dies, but the soldier who fights for existence never truly exists.”
“Inspiration arrives as a packet of material to be delivered.”
“You cannot strengthen the weak by weakening the strong.”
“I think we dream so we don't have to be apart so long. If we're in each other's dreams, we can be together all the time.”
“Inspiration is the gift of those who have experienced life at its most defined moments.”
“Our greatest glory is not in never falling but in rising every time we fall”
“You will not be punished for your anger, you will be punished by your anger.”
“Life must go on; I forget just why.”
“when all this started, I asked myself, 'Am I going to withdraw from the world, like most people do, or am I going to live?' I decided I am going to live-or at least try to live-the way I want, with dignity, with courage, with humor, with composure.”
“If today were the last day of my life, would I want to do what I am about to do today? And whenever the answer has been "No" for too many days in a row, I know I need to change something.”
“I learned... that inspiration does not come like a bolt, nor is it kinetic, energetic striving, but it comes into us slowly and quietly and all the time, though we must regularly and every day give it a little chance to start flowing, prime it with a little solitude and idleness.”
“It is because Humanity has never known where it was going that it has been able to find its way.”
“Listen to the mustn'ts, child. Listen to the don'ts. Listen to the shouldn'ts, the impossibles, the won'ts. Listen to the never haves, then listen close to me... Anything can happen, child. Anything can be.”
“Life is too short to spend your precious time trying to convince a person who wants to live in gloom and doom otherwise. Give lifting that person your best shot, but don't hang around long enough for his or her bad attitude to pull you down. Instead, surround yourself with optimistic people.”
“In life you need either inspiration or desperation.”
“When you do not know what you are doing and what you are doing is the best -- that is inspiration.”
“One word frees us of all the weight and pain of life: that word is love.”
“I believe that imagination is stronger than knowledge - myth is more potent than history - dreams are more powerful than facts - hope always triumphs over experience - laughter is the cure for grief - love is stronger than death”
“Anyone who has never made a mistake has never tried anything new.”
“If you look to others for fulfillment, you will never be fulfilled. If your
happiness depends on money, you will never be happy with yourself. Be content
with what you have; rejoice in the way things are. When you realize there is
nothing lacking, the world belongs to you.”
“Our moments of inspiration are not lost though we have no particular poem to show for them; for those experiences have left an indelible impression, and we are ever and anon reminded of them.”
“Once you make a decision, the universe conspires to make it happen.”
“Nature is my manifestation of God. I go to nature every day for inspiration in the day's work. I follow in building the principles which nature has used in its domain”
“Every time you smile at someone, it is an action of love, a gift to that person, a beautiful thing.”
“Inspiration could be called inhaling the memory of an act never experienced.”
“We gain strength, and courage, and confidence by each experience in which we really stop to look fear in the face... we must do that which we think we cannot.”
“You yourself, as much as anybody in the entire universe, deserve your love and affection.”
“If you have no character to lose, people will have no faith in you”
““One of the best confidence builder is experience.””
“Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate. Our deepest fear is that we are
powerful beyond measure. It is our light, not our darkness, that most frightens us.
We ask ourselves, who am I to be brilliant, gorgeous, talented, and fabulous?
Actually, who are you not to be?”
“A deadline is negative inspiration. Still, it's better than no inspiration at all.”
“An eye for eye only ends up making the whole world blind.”
“The best way to find yourself is to lose yourself in the service of others.”
“Who knows where inspiration comes from. Perhaps it arises from desperation. Perhaps it comes from the flukes of the universe, the kindness of the muses.”
“People are like dirt. They can either nourish you and help you grow as a person or they can stunt your growth and make you wilt and die.”
“Life may change, but it may fly not; Hope may vanish, but can die not; Truth be veiled, but still it burneth; Love repulsed, - but it returneth.”
“The journey of a thousand miles begins with one step.”
“Optimism is the faith that leads to achievement. Nothing can be done without hope and confidence.”
“A cookbook must have recipes, but it shouldn't be a blueprint. It should be more inspirational; it should be a guide.”
“Genius is one percent inspiration and ninety-nine percent perspiration.”
“For small creatures such as we the vastness is bearable only through love.”
“We keep moving forward, opening new doors, and doing new things, because we're curious and curiosity keeps leading us down new paths.”
“Life is the art of drawing without an eraser.”
“Wherever you go, go with all your heart.”
“Whenever you are confronted with an opponent. Conquer him with love.”
“Genius is 1% inspiration and 99% perspiration!”
“Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect.”
“Your attitude, not your aptitude, will determine your altitude”
“It's a funny thing about life; if you refuse to accept anything but the best, you very often get it.”
“I long to accomplish a great and noble task; but it is my chief duty to accomplish small tasks as if they were great and noble”
“There is only one way to succeed in anything and that is to give it everything.”
“Start by doing what's necessary; then do what's possible; and suddenly you are doing the impossible.”
“Don’t ask what the world needs. Ask what makes you come alive, and go do it. Because what the world needs is people who have come alive.”
“If opportunity doesn't knock, build a door.”
“Coaching isn't a great mystery. It's Just hard work, determination, and inspiration at the right moment.”
“Nothing in this world can take the place of persistence. Talent will not; nothing is more common than unsuccessful people with talent. Genius will not; unrewarded genius is almost a proverb. Education will not; the world is full of educated derelicts. Persistence and determination alone are omnipotent. The slogan "press on" has solved and always will solve the problems of the human race”
“If you live to be 100, I hope I live to be 100 minus 1 day, so I never have to live without you.”
“I don't worry about yesterday because it is already gone. I use the energy I have to survive for today because it is all I have. When I survive today I hope I can see tomorrow.”
“Your battles inspired me - not the obvious material battles but those that were fought and won behind your forehead.”
“The person who risks nothing, does nothing, has nothing, is nothing, and becomes nothing. He may avoid suffering and sorrow, but he simply cannot learn and feel and change and grow and love and live.”
“It is from numberless diverse acts of courage and belief that human history is shaped. Each time a man stands up for an ideal, or acts to improve the lot of others, or strikes out against injustice, he sends forth a tiny ripple of hope.”
“It is one of the most beautiful compensations of this life that no man can
sincerely try to help another without helping himself.”
“Throughout life people will make you mad, disrespect you and treat you bad. Let God deal with the things they do, cause hate in your heart will consume you too.”
“The difference between school and life? In school, you're taught a lesson and then given a test. In life, you're given a test that teaches you a lesson.”
“Shoot for the moon. Even if you miss, you'll land among the stars.”
“Always look on the bright side of life.”
“There is great comfort and inspiration in the feeling of close human relationships and its bearing on our mutual fortunes - a powerful force, to overcome the "tough breaks" which are certain to come to most of us from time to time”
“Everyone has talent. What is rare is the courage to follow the talent to the dark place where it leads.”
“The tears of faithfulness to your beliefs cleanse your spirit to envision the road ahead. Everything is possible for the person who believes.”
“Love and respect woman. Look to her not only for comfort, but for strength and inspiration and the doubling of your intellectual and moral powers. Blot out from your mind any idea of superiority; you have none.”
“There comes a time when you have to stand up and shout:
This is me damn it! I look the way I look, think the way I think, feel the way I feel, love the way I love! I am a whole complex package. Take me... or leave me. Accept me - or walk away! Do not try to make me feel like less of a person, just because I don't fit your idea of who I should be and don't try to change me to fit your mold. If I need to change, I alone will make that decision.
When you are strong enough to love yourself 100%, good and bad - you will be amazed at the opportunities that life presents you.”
“Regret for the things we did can be tempered by time; it is regret for the things we did not do that is inconsolable.”
“Do not be too timid and squeamish about your actions. All life is an experiment.”
“Inspirations never go in for long engagements; they demand immediate marriage to action.”
“Beyond every millisecond of existence is an infinite miracle of chance”
“Only one who devotes himself to a cause with his whole strength and soul can be a true master. For this reason mastery demands all of a person.”
“Open your eyes, look within. Are you satisfied with the life you're living?”
“The intuitive mind is a sacred gift and the rational mind is a faithful servant. We have created a society that honors the servant and has forgotten the gift.”
“I have had all of the disadvantages required for success.”
“Time you enjoy wasting, was not wasted.”
“Happiness is a butterfly, which when pursued, is always just beyond your grasp, but which, if you will sit down quietly, may alight upon you”
“Develop success from failures. Discouragement and failure are two of the surest stepping stones to success.”
“If you have the desire, passion and enthusiasm to do something, nothing in the world will stop you.”
“If you have only one smile in you give it to the people you love.”
“The biggest adventure you can take is to live the life of your dreams.”
“Character may almost be called the most effective means of persuasion.”
“The greatest good you can do for another is not just to share your riches but to reveal to him his own.”
“In the sweetness of friendship let there be laughter, and sharing of pleasures. For in the dew of little things the heart finds its morning and is refreshed.”
“Nothing happens unless first a dream.”
“All our dreams can come true...if we have the courage to pursue them.”
“When you choose to love as God loves, it will never be safe....but it will set you free.”
“Most people fail in life because they major in minor things.”
“The love that lasts the longest is the love that is never returned.”
“Study nature, love nature, stay close to nature. It will never fail you.”
“Treat a man as he is, and he will remain as he is. Treat a man as he could be, and he will become what he should be.”
“Success is a journey, not a destination.”
“One of the advantages of being disorderly is that one is constantly making exciting discoveries.”
“Courage is as often the outcome of despair as of hope; in the one case we have nothing to lose, in the other, everything to gain”
“The torpid artist seeks inspiration at any cost, by virtue or by vice, by friend or by fiend, by prayer or by wine.”
“For anything worth having one must pay the price; and the price is always work, patience, love, self-sacrifice”
“You cannot advance if you cannot visualize the end from the start.”
“Apparently Arnold was inspired by President Bush, who proved you can be a successful politician in this country even if English is your second language.”
“If passion drives you, let reason hold the reins.”
“You've got to find what you love.Your work is going to fill a large part of your life, and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work. And the only way to do great work is to love what you do. If you haven’t found it yet, keep looking. And don’t settle.”
“Nothing in this world can take the place of persistence. Talent will not; nothing is more common than unsuccessful people with talent. Genius will not; unrewarded genius is almost a proverb. Education will not; the world is full of educated derelicts. Persistence and determination alone are omnipotent. The slogan "press on" has solved and always will solve the problems of the human race”
“Success builds character, failure reveals it”
“I certainly don't regret my experiences because without them, I couldn't imagine who or where I would be today. Life is an amazing gift to those who have overcome great obstacles, and attitude is everything!”
“The Search for Truth is a Search for Identity, that in finding Truth, we find Ourselves.”
“The ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy.”
“There is only one success -to be able to spend your life in your own way.”
“Christianity is the story of how the rightful King has landed, you might say in disguise, and is calling us all to take part in His great campaign of sabotage”
“Often the difference between a successful person and a failure is not one has better abilities or ideas, but the courage that one has to bet on one's ideas, to take a calculated risk - and to act.”
“I got to thank God because that's my inspiration for everything that I do,”
“We've got to have a dream if we are going to make a dream come true.”
“The experienced mountain climber is not intimidated by a mountain -- he is inspired by it. The persistent winner is not discouraged by a problem -- he is challenged by it. Mountains are created to be conquered; adversities are designed to be defeated; problems are sent to be solved. It is better to master one mountain than a thousand foothills.”
“Inspiration exists, but it has to find us working.”
“"Talk to people about what they want to hear, and they'll stay for more. Talk to them about what you want them to hear, and they'll soon turn away. " - Nabil N. Jamal”
“Our lives a series of defining moments,
strung together by passing time.
Surrender fully to this moment,
because it is not the moment itself that defines us,
but how we choose to live in it.”
“Just as appetite comes from eating, so work brings inspiration, if inspiration is not discernible at the beginning”
“Obstacles are things a person sees when he takes his eyes off his goal.”
“A positive attitude may not solve all your problems, but it will annoy enough people to make it worth the effort.”
“It is the supreme art of the teacher to awaken joy in creative expression and knowledge.”
“First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you, then you win.”
“Coming together is a beginning. Keeping together is progress. Working together is success.”
“Cease trying to work everything out with your minds. It will get you nowhere. Live by intuition and inspiration and let your whole life be Revelation.”
“A friend is one that knows you as you are, understands where you have been, accepts what you have become, and still, gently allows you to grow.”
“Don't ever make the same mistake twice, unless it pays.”
“He who is not everyday conquering some fear has not learned the secret of life.”
“I love inspiring people, and if I can make a difference in one person's life, then that's success for me!”
“It does not matter how slowly you go so long as you do not stop”
“Stay hungry, stay foolish”
“Success is to be measured not so much by the position that one has reached in life... as by the obstacles which he has overcome while trying to succeed.”
“Start by doing what's necessary; then do what's possible; and suddenly you are doing the impossible.”
“The way I see it, if you want the rainbow, you gotta put up with the rain.”
“Without craftsmanship, inspiration is a mere reed shaken in the wind”
“The greatest happiness of life is the conviction that we are loved -- loved for ourselves, or rather, loved in spite of ourselves.”
“There is nothing like a dream to create the future.”
“Your future is created by what you do today, not tomorrow”
“Faith is the art of holding on to things your reason has once accepted in spite of your changing moods”
“Quotes are nothing but inspiration for the uninspired.”
“People are always blaming their circumstances for what they are. I don't believe in circumstances. The people who get on in this world are the people who get up and look for the circumstances they want, and if they can't find them, make them”
“No man not inspired can make a good speech without preparation”
“If you only do what you know you can do- you never do very much.”
“Friendship with oneself is all important because without it one cannot be friends with anybody else in the world.”
“It is easy to love the people far away. It is not always easy to love those close to us. It is easier to give a cup of rice to relieve hunger than to relieve the loneliness and pain of someone unloved in our own home. Bring love into your home for this is where our love for each other must start.”
“A man paints with his brains and not with his hands.”
“Better beware of notions like genius and inspiration; they are a sort of magic wand and should be used sparingly by anybody who wants to see things clearly.”
“For my part I know nothing with any certainty, but the sight of the stars makes me dream.”
“May the sun shine all day long, everything go right and nothing wrong. May those you love bring love back to you, and may all the wishes you wish come true!”
“Inspiration comes of working every day.”
“Iron is full of impurities that weaken it: through forging, it becomes steel and is transformed into a razor-sharp sword. Human beings develop in the same fashion.”
“The test of a good teacher is not how many questions he can ask his pupils that they will answer readily, but how many questions he inspires them to ask him which he finds it hard to answer”
“If you're here for inspiration, you're too late. If you're here for the funeral, you're too early.”
“If at first, the idea is not absurd, then there is no hope for it”
“If you have the desire, passion and enthusiasm to do something, nothing in the world will stop you.”
“Don't listen to anyone who tells you that you can't do this or that. That's nonsense. Make up your mind, you'll never use crutches or a stick, then have a go at everything. Go to school, join in all the games you can. Go anywhere you want to. But never, never let them persuade you that things are too difficult or impossible.”
“While we may not be able to control all that happens to us, we can control what happens inside us.”
“I could never tell where inspiration begins and impulse leaves off. I suppose the answer is in the outcome. If your hunch proves a good one, you were inspired; if it proves bad, you are guilty of yielding to thoughtless impulse.”
“Life has taught us that love does not consist in gazing at each other, but in looking outward together in the same direction”
“Most great people have attained their greatest success just one step beyond their greatest failure.”
“I know what I have given you. I do not know what you have received”
“I'll love you, dear, I'll love you till China and Africa meet and the river jumps over the mountain and the salmon sing in the street.”
“Expecting and Accepting are the two sides of life, Expecting can end in tears, but Accepting will bring you cheers!”
“Are you upset little friend? Have you been lying awake worrying? Well, don't worry...I'm here. The flood waters will recede, the famine will end, the sun will shine tomorrow, and I will always be here to take care of you. -Charlie Brown to Snoopy”
“I believe in the sun when it's not shining, I believe in love even when I feel it not, I believe in God even when he is silent.”
“The important thing is not to stop questioning. Curiosity has its own reason for existing.”
“Plenty of people miss their share of happiness, not because they never found it, but because they didn't stop to enjoy it.”
“Adam and Eve are like imaginary number, like the square root of minus one... If you include it in your equation, you can calculate all manners of things, which cannot be imagined without it.”
“We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act, but a habit.”
“Awareness is a key ingredient in success. If you have it, teach it, if you lack it, seek it.”
“I lived in solitude in the country and noticed how the monotony of a quiet life stimulates the creative mind”
“I discovered that what's really important for a creator isn't what we vaguely define as inspiration or even what it is we want to say, recall, regret, or rebel against. No, what's important is the way we say it. Art is all about craftsmanship. Others can interpret craftsmanship as style if they wish. Style is what unites memory or recollection, ideology, sentiment, nostalgia, presentiment, to the way we express all that. It's not what we say but how we say it that matters.”
“Honesty is the first chapter in the book of wisdom.”
“Love is a fruit in season at all times, and in reach of every hand.”
“Like the wind crying endlessly through the universe, Time carries away the names and the deeds of conquerors and commoners alike. And all that we are, all that remains, is in the memories of those who cared we came this way for a brief moment.”
“In art the hand can never execute anything higher than the heart can inspire”
“A dream is your creative vision for your life in the future. You must break out of your current comfort zone and become comfortable with the unfamiliar and the unknown.”
“If money is your hope for independence you will never have it. The only real security that a man will have in this world is a reserve of knowledge, experience, and ability.”
“Music is the balm that heals the forlorn ache of a distant star.”
“One expected growth, change; without it, the world was less, the well of inspiration dried up, the muses fled.”
“Inspiration may be a form of super-consciousness, or perhaps of subconsciousness - I wouldn't know. But I am sure it is the antithesis of self-consciousness.”
“Believe in yourself. You gain strength, courage, and confidence by every
experience in which you stop to look fear in the face. You must do that which you
think you cannot do.”
“Do not quench your inspiration and your imagination; do not become the slave of your model.”
“The essence of optimism is that it takes no account of the present, but it is a source of inspiration, of vitality and hope where others have resigned; it enables a man to hold his head high, to claim the future for himself and not to abandon it to h”
“Believing in yourself, is an endless destination. Believing you have failed, is the
end of your journey.”
“Asparagus inspires gentle thoughts.”
“Music takes us out of the actual and whispers to us dim secrets that startle our wonder as to who we are, and for what, whence, and whereto.”
“My mother...taught me about the power of inspiration and courage, and she did it with a strength and a passion that I wish could be bottled.”
“Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma - which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don't let the noise of other's opinions drown out your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary.”
“No man can purchase his virtue too dear, for it is the only thing whose value must ever increase with the price it has cost us. Our integrity is never worth so much as when we have parted with our all to keep it.”
“Over-preparation is the foe of inspiration”
“Every great dream begins with a dreamer. Always remember, you have within you the strength, the patience, and the passion to reach for the stars to change the world.”
“Who I am today is a constant reminder of what I took from my past challenges.”
“Nobody knows exactly what he's capable of until he tries!”
“Only when your consciousness is totally focused on the moment you are in can you receive whatever gift, lesson, or delight that moment has to offer.”
“The greater your capacity to love, the greater your capacity to feel the pain.”
“I challenge you to make your life a masterpiece. I challenge you to join the ranks of those people who live what they teach, who walk their talk.”
“The biggest adventure you can take is to live the life of your dreams.”
“Everything has its beauty, but not everyone sees it”
“Experience is not what happens to a man; it is what a man does with what happens to him.”
“If you wished to be loved, love.”
“High achievement always takes place in the framework of high expectation.”
“People love others not for who they are but for how they make them feel”
“Luck is what happens when preparation meets opportunity.”
“We will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends.”
“When your Achievements Start to Glow Criticisms will start to flow, it’s a sign where you have reached beyond your social limitation”
“One of the largest influences on human beings is the people with whom you spend your time. Find a group of winners; people who celebrate success and will help you to achieve the life you desire.”
“I am responsible. Although I may not be able to prevent the worst from happening, I am responsible for my attitude toward the inevitable misfortunes that darken life. Bad things do happen; how I respond to them defines my character and the quality of my life. I can choose to sit in perpetual sadness, immobilized by the gravity of my loss, or I can choose to rise from the pain and treasure the most precious gift I have – life itself.”
“A bachelor has to have inspiration for making love to a woman, a married man needs only an excuse”
“It takes 20 years to build a reputation and five minutes to ruin it. If you think about that, you'll do things differently.”
“To do the useful thing, to say the courageous thing, to contemplate the beautiful thing: that is enough for one man's life.”
“Technique is what you fall back on when you run out of inspiration”
“Imagination is more important than knowledge. For knowledge is limited to all we now know and understand, while imagination embraces the entire world, and all there ever will be to know and understand.”
“A mind with thoughts and ideas is like a search engine on a computer. But, You must type them in order to get results.”
“Inspiration is needed in geometry, just as much as in poetry.”
“To forgive is the highest, most beautiful form of love. In return, you will receive untold peace and happiness.”
“It is Christmas every time you let God love others through you . . . yes, it is Christmas every time you smile at your brother and offer him your hand.”
“The inspiration of the Bible depends upon the ignorance of the gentleman who reads it.”
“Opportunity is missed by most people because it is dressed in overalls and looks like work.”
“The glory of friendship is not the outstretched hand, nor the kindly smile, nor the joy of companionship; it's the spiritual inspiration that comes to one when he discovers that someone else believes in him and is willing to trust him with his friend.”
“The challenge of leadership is to be strong, but not rude; be kind, but not weak; be bold, but not bully; be thoughtful, but not lazy; be humble, but not timid; be proud, but not arrogant; have humor, but without folly.”
“Everyone thinks of changing the world, but no one thinks of changing himself.”
“If you only do what you know you can do- you never do very much.”
“You can gain more friends by being yourself than you can by putting up a front. You can gain more friends by building people up than you can by tearing them down. And you can gain more friends by taking a few minutes from each day to do something kind for someone, whether it be a friend or a complete stranger. What a difference one person can make!”
“Chains of habit are too light to be felt until they are too heavy to be broken.”
“It was sheer professionalism and inspiration and the fact that you really cannot have people marching into other people's territory and staying there.”
“If you live each day as if it was your last, someday you will most certainly be right.”
“Do not wait; the time will never be "just right." Start where you stand, and work with whatever tools you may have at your command, and better tools will be found as you go along.”
“Life is an opportunity, benefit from it. Life is a beauty, admire it. Life is a dream,
realize it. Life is a challenge, meet it. Life is a duty, complete it. Life is a game,
play it. Life is a promise, fulfill it. Life is sorrow, overcome it. Life is a song, sing
it. Life is a struggle, accept it. Life is a tragedy, confront it. Life is an adventure,
dare it. Life is luck, make it. Life is life, fight for it!”
“Learn to listen, then listen to learn”
“When I'm inspired, I get excited because I can't wait to see what I'll come up with next.”
“Our chief want is someone who will inspire us to be what we know we could be.”
“I was a kid when Dean came out. Dean was the inspiration. Even the red jacket he wore in 'Rebel Without a Cause,' you saw that red jacket popping up all over the place. He really reached people in a way; it was kind of a phenomenon when you think of it. I wonder what it would be like today, that kind of a person ... he made that connection with his audience. And I remember at that time my mother loved him. He reached everybody.”
“Beauty is not in the face; beauty is a light in the heart”
“The greatest glory in living lies not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall.”
“Big machines are the awe-inspiring cathedrals of the 20th century.”
“Those who bring sunshine into the lives of others, cannot keep it from themselves.”
“Keep your love tightly and do not think too hard about your relationship, because doubt will separate you from your love. Enjoy every moment together.”
“The hero draws inspiration from the virtue of his ancestors.”
“Whenever a friend succeeds a little something in me dies.”
“Life is either a great adventure or nothing.”
“Our greatest glory is not in never failing, but in rising up every time we fail.”
“Let him that would move the world, first move himself.”
“The weak can never forgive. Forgiveness is the attribute of the strong.”
“We're born alone, we live alone, we die alone. Only through our love and friendship can we create the illusion for the moment that we're not alone.”
“Love many things, for therein lies the true strength, and whosoever loves much performs much, and can accomplish much, and what is done in love is done well.”
“Life isn't about finding yourself. Life is about creating yourself.”
“It's not the size of the dog in the fight, it's the size of the fight in the dog.”
“All that we are is the result of what we have thought. The mind is everything. What we think we become.”
“We may encounter many defeats but we must not be defeated.”
“An investment in knowledge always pays the best interest”
“All the great things are simple, and many can be expressed in a single word: freedom; justice; honor; duty; mercy; hope”
“You use a glass mirror to see your face; you use works of art to see your soul”
“The greatest gifts you can give your children are the roots of responsibility and the wings of independence.”
“When a work lifts your spirits and inspires bold and noble thoughts in you, do not look for any other standard to judge by: the work is good, the product of a master craftsman”
“We are what we think. All that we are arises with our thoughts. With our thoughts, we make the world.”
“A man is but the product of his thoughts what he thinks, he becomes.”
“Some of the biggest challenges in relationships come from the fact that most people enter a relationship in order to get something: they're trying to find someone who's going to make them feel good. In reality, the only way a relationship will last is if you see your relationship as a place that you go to give, and not a place that you go to take.”
“In the depths of winter I finally learned there was in me an invincible summer”
“Without knowing failure how can we know success? -Nabil N. Jamal”
“People are like stained-glass windows. They sparkle and shine when the sun is out, but when the darkness sets in, their true beauty is revealed only if there is a light from within.”
“Identify your problems, but give your power and energy to solutions.”
“In every living thing there is the desire for love.”
“love life, engage in it, give it all you've got. love it with a passion, because life truly does give back, many times over, what you put into it”
“Work is 1% inspiration plus 99% transpiration”
“May you - Work like you don't need the money, love like you've never been hurt, dance like no-one is watching, screw like it's being filmed, and drink like a true Irishman”
“Friendship is a single soul dwelling in two bodies.”
“The finest kind of friendship is between people who expect a great deal of each other but never ask it”
“Love is the ability and willingness to allow those that you care for to be what they choose for themselves without any insistence that they satisfy you.”
“Wine is a clog to the pen, not an inspiration”
“If you judge people, you have no time to love them.”
“No matter what you've done for yourself or for humanity, if you can't look back on having given love and attention to your own family, what have you really accomplished?”
“If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that is where they
should be. Now put the foundations under them.”
“When I look into the future, it's so bright it burns my eyes.”
“If you can't find your inspiration by walking around the block one time, go around two blocks-but never three.”
“Life exists for the love of music or beautiful things.”
“We can't solve problems by using the same kind of thinking we used when we created them.”
“The only place where success comes before work is in the dictionary.”
“You are the one who inspire everybody to do his duty; I am inspired by your 'inspiration of duty';You are directly or indirectly involved with each and every action that takes place in this world. ”
“We have not come into the world to be numbered; we have been created for a purpose; for great things: to love and be loved.”
“Character may almost be called the most effective means of persuasion.”
“As a well spent day brings happy sleep, so a life well spent brings happy death.”
“Things turn out best for the people who make the best of the way things turn out.”
“A woman is always a mystery: one must not be fooled by her face and her hearts inspiration”
“whether you dream big or dream small, chances are your dream will come true if you believe in it and really work on it.
- Nabil N. Jamal”
“We've got to have a dream if we are going to make a dream come true.”
“Throw away those books and cassettes on inspirational leadership. Send those consultants packing. Know your job, set a good example for the people under you and put results over politics. That's all the charisma you'll really need to succeed.”
“A pessimist sees the difficulty in every opportunity; an optimist sees the opportunity in every difficulty.”
“If you teach a man anything, he will never learn”
“Success is 10 percent inspiration and 90 percent perspiration.”
“I long to speak out the intense inspiration that comes to me from the lives of strong women.”
“I can be inspirational..i can be depressing..i can be extremely selfish..i can be extremely selfless..i can be the happiest person you know..i can be the most down person you know..i could be your everything..but i could never be your nothing.”
“Reflect upon your present blessings of which every man has many - not on your past misfortunes, of which all men have some”
“Chase your passion, not your pension.”
“He that is thy friend indeed,
He will help thee in thy need:
If thou sorrow, he will weep;
If thou wake, he cannot sleep:
Thus of every grief in heart
He with thee does bear a part.
These are certain signs to know
Faithful friend from flattering foe.”
“You can't wait for inspiration. You have to go after it with a club.”
“Imagination is more important than knowledge.”
“In the power and splendor of the universe, inspiration waits for the millions to come. Man has only to strive for it. Poems greater than the Iliad, plays greater than Macbeth, stories more engaging than Don Quixote await their seeker and finder.”
“We are not victims by nature...we are programmed to be victims...for good reason...if we truly embraced our power, we would never be controlled. Live WISE~”
“Without inspiration the best powers of the mind remain dormant, they is a fuel in us which needs to be ignited with sparks.”
“Be Impeccable With Your Word. Speak with integrity. Say only what you mean. Avoid using the word to speak against yourself or to gossip about others. Use the power of your word in the direction of truth and love.”
“Carve a tunnel of hope through the dark mountain of disappointment.”
“As strange as it may seem, human bodies are transportation devices. You came out of your mother's body when you were born, and you will come out of your own body when you die. A human body brought you into this world and a human body will release you from it”
“There are two ways to live: you can live as if nothing is a miracle; you can live as if everything is a miracle.”
“I am a success today because I had a friend who believed in me and I didn't have the heart to let him down...”
“Invention is 1% inspiration and 99% perspiration”
“There is little difference in people, but that little difference makes a big difference. The little difference is attitude. The big difference is whether it is positive or negative.”
“Build up your weaknesses until they become your strong points.”
“The mediocre teacher tells. The good teacher explains. The superior teacher demonstrates. The great teacher inspires.”
“The more you praise and celebrate your life, the more there is in life to celebrate.”
“When you are dispirited, held back, beat down and you have no one,you can give up, give in, or you can find those things you need to stand within yourself.If no one else believes in you, then you must believe in yourself.If you can not get the love you need from others, you must make room in your heart and give that love to yourself.You must accept yourself exactly as you are, all your flaws, all your faults, all your dreams.”
“If you hold a cat by the tail you learn things you cannot learn any other way.”
“Courage is not the absence of fear, but rather the judgment that something else is more important than fear.”
“My brain and temple are my prize possessions.. I won't abuse it with unhealthy thoughts and foods.. Positivity is my dessert”
“Most of the things people worry about never happens! If you unworry more often, you will succeed more often!”
“Hate grows and victors where love is afraid to share its bloom.”
“You are who you are. people can either take it, or leave it. Never should you help people in any way make the decision of being a part of your life.”
“Inspiration acts as a catalyst for success. ”
“Don't let the fear of the time it will take to accomplish something stand in the way of your doing it. The time will pass anyway; we might just as well put that passing time to the best possible use.”
“If you don't love what you do, you won't do it with much conviction or passion.”
“Curiosity is one of the most permanent and certain characteristics of a vigorous intellect.”
“When I step onto the court, I don't have to think about anything. If I have a problem off the court, I find that after I play, my mind is clearer and I can come up with a better solution. It's like therapy. It relaxes me and allows me to solve problems”
“I have heard there are troubles of more than one kind. Some come from ahead and some come from behind. But I've bought a big bat. I'm all ready you see. Now my troubles are going to have troubles with me!”
“To love someone deeply gives you strength. Being loved by someone deeply gives you courage.”
“To love is to receive a glimpse of heaven”
“Be slow to fall into friendship, but when thou art in, continue firm and constant.”
“Read as you taste fruit or savor wine, or enjoy friendship, love or life.”
“You can be a beacon of inspiration by doing no more than your daily routine. And, yes, it must be a different routine than what you have now.”
“The good Lord made us all out of iron. Then he turns up the heat to forge some of us into steel.”
“Whatever you are by nature, keep to it; never desert your line of talent. Be what nature intended you for, and you will succeed.”
“Victory is always possible for the person who refuses to stop fighting.”
“The opportunity for brotherhood presents itself every time you meet a human being.”
“Love would never leave us alone”
“If you love life, don't waste time, for time is what life is made up of.”
“When I was a freshman in high school, my drama teacher, an incredible, inspirational genius, the guy who got me into acting, he encouraged me to get the lead in a musical. They didn't have any guys.”
“[Speaking of inspiration, the Bible has long been a source of rich stories that emphasize the importance of faith. The Prodigal Son has been one of the most trusted parables in the Good Book, used extensively in Westerns and war, but not from the perspective of a church background, with a plot tweak that pits former best friends against each other in so dramatic a way. Packer recognized this early as the storyline unfolded:] It's about really having the inner fortitude to overcome anything that's in front of you, and doing that with the help of God. It's a faith-based, inspiration-themed film, one we've wanted to do for some time. ... You see the character Boris plays of David, who's raised in the church, goes away, gets into a life of fame, money, women, wealth, drugs and sex. As he journeys back, it's the redemption that he finds, it's the hope that he finds, it's the salvation that he finds.”
“Everyone needs and deserves love and happiness. Let's not wait until we're perfect
to go out and find it.”
“No love, no friendship Can cross the path of our destiny Without leaving some mark on it forever.”
“You can turn off the sun, but I'm still gonna shine.”
“He who does not feel his friends to be the world to him, does not deserve that the world should hear of him.”
“Pretend that every single person you meet has a sign around his or her neck that says, ''Make me feel important.'' Not only will you succeed in sales, you will succeed in life.”
“Live out of your imagination, not your history.”
“There are only two lasting bequests we can give our children... one is roots, the
other wings.”
“I was born to be a runner. I simply love to run. It's almost like the faster I go, the easier it becomes.”
“Every good picture leaves the painter eager to start again, unsatisfied, inspired by the rich mine in which he is working, hoping for more energy, more vitality, more time - condemned to painting for life.”
“Without faith, hope and trust, there is no promise for the future, and without a promising future, life has no direction, no meaning and no justification.”
“All the king's horses and all the king's men can't put the past together again. So let's remember: Don't try to saw sawdust.”
“Inaction breeds doubt and fear. Action breeds confidence and courage. If you want to conquer fear, do not sit home and think about it. Go out and get busy.”
“Where there is love there is pain”
“Be vigilant; guard your mind against negative thoughts.”
“Without the darkness the light would be lonely, without hate, true love could never be tangible, without death we'd lead a life full of repetitive misery, and without family we'd fail to exist.”
“We must walk consciously only part way toward our goal, and then leap in the dark to our success.”
“Our chief want is someone who will inspire us to be what we know we could be.”
“Usenet is like a herd of performing elephants with diarrhea- massive, difficult to redirect, awe-inspiring, entertaining, and a source of mind boggling amounts of excrement when you least expect it”
“you don't always have to convince people to be on your side, sometimes you have to confuse them instead.”
“Most people say that is it is the intellect which makes a great scientist. They are wrong: it is character.”
“The tongue like a sharp knife... Kills without drawing blood.”
“Do one thing everyday that scares you.”
“Caring for but never trying to own may be a further way to define friendship.”
“Kites rise highest against the wind, not with it.”
“. . . inspiration never arrived when you were searching for it.”
“I'm a great believer in luck, and I find the harder I work, the more I have of it.”
“You gain strength, courage and confidence by every experience in which you
really stop to look fear in the face. You must do the thing which you think you
can not do.”
“The golden opportunity you are seeking is in yourself. It is not in your environment, it is not in luck or chance, or the help of others; it is in yourself alone.”
“Winning is not everything, but the effort to win is.”
“Hide not your talents. They for use were made. What's a sundial in the shade?”
“When you live on a round planet, there's no choosing sides.”
“We should take inspiration from learned-people and sages and put them into practice. ”
“Everything that is really great and inspiring is created by the individual who can labor in freedom.”
“Love and kindness are never wasted. They always make a difference.They bless the one who receives them,and they bless you,the giver.”
“A friend is someone who lets you have total freedom to be yourself.”
“Nothing can stop the man with the right mental attitude from achieving his goal; nothing on earth can help the man with the wrong mental attitude.”
“The true voyage of discovery consists not of seeking new landscapes, but having
new eyes.”
“Most of us have far more courage than we ever dreamed we possessed.”
“It is essential to our well-being, and to our lives, that we play and enjoy life. Every single day do something that makes your heart sing.”
“You cant always have what you want but it's important to want what you have.”
“The only time you ever have in which to learn anything or see anything or feel
anything, or express any feeling or emotion, or respond to an event, or grow, or
heal, is this moment, because this is the only moment any of us ever gets. You're
only here now; you're only alive in this moment.”
“Patience, persistence and perspiration make an unbeatable combination for success”
“Failure is success if we learn from it.”
“Time is not measured by the passing of years but by what one does, what one feels, and what one achieves.”
“Everyone who has achieved financial independence will tell you that at least in
the early days you have to work smarter and harder. The price of success must be
paid in full, and it must be paid in advance. There are no shortcuts.”
“Ideals are like the stars: we never reach them, but like the mariners of the sea, we chart our course by them.”
“If you read history you will find that the Christians who did most for the present world were precisely those who thought most of the next. It is since Christians have largely ceased to think of the other world that they have become so ineffective in this.”
“Milton Berle is an inspiration to every young person that wants to get into show business. Hard work, perseverance, and discipline: all the things you need...when you have no talent.”
“If you shoot for the stars and hit the moon, it's OK. But you've got to shoot for something. A lot of people don't even shoot.”
“Life is no `brief candle' to me. It is a sort of splendid torch which I've got to hold
up for the moment, and I want to make it burn as brightly as possible before
handing it on to future generations.”
“The best way to find yourself is to lose yourself in the service of others.”
“Love yourself—accept yourself—forgive yourself—and be good to yourself, because without you the rest of us are without a source of many wonderful things.”
“Know where to find the information and how to use it - That's the secret of success”
“It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood, who strives valiantly; who errs and comes short again and again; because there is not effort without error and shortcomings; but who does actually strive to do the deed; who knows the great enthusiasm, the great devotion, who spends himself in a worthy cause, who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement and who at the worst, if he fails, at least he fails while daring greatly. So that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who know neither victory nor defeat.”
“Some say we are responsible for those we love. Others know we are responsible for those who love us.”
“It's a humbling experience. These people have been through extraordinary events. They're an inspiration.”
“Strength does not come from winning. Your struggles develop your strengths. When you go through hardships and decide not to surrender, that is strength.”
“Face your deficiencies and acknowledge them; but do not let them master you.
Let them teach you patience, sweetness, insight.”
“Be Content with what you have; rejoice in the way things are. When you realize there is nothing lacking, the whole world belongs to you.”
“If we were all sposed to be perfect, then we would all be the exactly same.”
“Men often become what they believe themselves to be. If I believe I cannot do something, it makes me incapable of doing it. But when I believe I can, then I acquire the ability to do it even if I didn't have it in the beginning.”
“You block your dream when you allow your fear to grow bigger than your faith.”
“Love and death are two uninvited guests. Nobody knows when they come, but both do the same work. One takes the heart and the other takes its beat.”
“As we explore the beauty within us, we discover the beauty around us.”
“Go for it now. The future is promised to no one.”
“You’ll never be successful if you’re afraid of the task at hand. The true meaning of success is the gratification you receive when you’ve accomplished something that you thought you couldn’t and bear the fruits from it. If you are able to share the fruits with others then you’ve really accomplished something special.”
“Before you speak, listen.
Before you write, think.
Before you spend, earn.
Before you invest, investigate.
Before you criticize, wait.
Before you pray, forgive.
Before you quit, try.
Before you retire, save.
Before you die, give.”
“Show up for your life, because if you don't no one else will.”
“Beyond talent lie all the usual words: discipline, love, luck -- but, most of all, endurance.”
“Expect the best. Prepare for the worst. Capitalize on what comes.”
“It is the inspiration of the Olympic Games that drives people not only to compete but to improve, and to bring lasting spiritual and moral benefits to the athlete and inspiration to those lucky enough to witness the athletic dedication.”
“What Romantic terminology called genius or talent or inspiration is nothing other than finding the right road empirically, following one's nose, taking shortcuts.”
“I always seem to get inspiration and renewed vitality by contact with this great novel land of yours which sticks up out of the Atlantic.”
“Words can sting like anything, but silence breaks the heart.”
“Wherever there is a human being, there is an opportunity for a kindness.”
“Wishing to be friends is quick work, but friendship is slow-ripening fruit.”
“The true joy of life [is] being used for a purpose recognized by yourself as a mighty one ... being thoroughly worn out before you are thrown to the scrap heap ... being a force of nature instead of a feverish, selfish clod of ailments and grievances.”
“Worry not that no one knows of you; seek to be worth knowing.”
“To laugh often and much; to win the respect of intelligent people and the affection of children...to leave the world a better place...to know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived. This is to have succeeded.”
“The best day of your life is the one on which you decide your life is your own. No apologies or excuses. No one to lean on, rely on, or blame. The gift is yours - it is an amazing journey - and you alone are responsible for the quality of it. This is the day your life really begins.”
“If you look for the bad in people expecting to find it, you surely will.”
“Do not go where the path may lead; go instead where there is no path and leave a trail”
“You can make a new friend but you can't make an old one.”
“Love all, trust a few, do wrong to none.”
“The happiest people are those who think the most interesting thoughts. Those who decide to use leisure as a means of mental development, who love good music, good books, good pictures, good company, good conversation, are the happiest people in the world. And they are not only happy in themselves, they are the cause of happiness in others.”
“In order to have friends, you must first be one.”
“The world is round so that friendship may encircle it.”
“The glory of friendship is not the outstretched hand, nor the kindly smile, nor the
joy of companionship; it is the spiritual inspiration that comes to one when he
discovers that someone else believes in him and is willing to trust him with his
friendship.”
“I don't know anything about inspiration because I don't know what inspiration is; I've heard about it, but I never saw it.”
“Learn and grow all you can; serve and befriend all you can; enrich and inspire all you can.”
“Close scrutiny will show that most ''crisis situations'' are opportunities to either advance, or stay where you are.”
“Just remember - when you think all is lost, the future remains”
“In the silence of night I have often wished for just a few words of love from one man, rather than the applause of thousands of people.”
“There is the falsely mystical view of art that assumes a kind of supernatural inspiration, a possession by universal forces unrelated to questions of power and privilege or the artist's relation to bread and blood. In this view, the channel of art can only become clogged and misdirected by the artist's concern with merely temporary and local disturbances. The song is higher than the struggle.”
“We are told to let our light shine, and if it does, we won't need to tell anybody it does. Lighthouses don't fire cannons to call attention to their shining- they just shine.”
“I have been driven many times to my knees by the overwhelming conviction that I had nowhere to go. My own wisdom, and that of all about me, seemed insufficient for the day.”
“The highest education is that which does not merely give us information but makes our life in harmony with all existence.”
“If you want to reach a goal, you must 'see the reaching' in your own mind before you actually arrive at your goal.”
“Love isn't an emotion or an instinct--it's an art.”
“Insomnia is my greatest inspiration.”
“The greatest gift of life is friendship, and I have received it.”
“Friendship without self-interest is one of the rare and beautiful things of life”
“If you have no confidence in self, you are twice defeated in the race of life. With confidence, you have won even before you have started.”
“There is a better way to do it; find it. sign Thomas Edison had hanging in his
office A fool vents all his feelings, but a wise man holds them back. Proverbs Joy
can be real only if people look upon their lives as an opportunity to be of service,
and have a definite object in life outside themselves and their personal happiness.”
“You have a brush in one hand and paint in the other. You just need to realize that you are the Artist of your own destiny. The outcome of such a realization will transform the road ahead of you into canvas, waiting only for you to start painting.”
“Great people give inspiration by their deeds. They lead by examples. Common people always emulate them. ”
“I would like to be called an inspiration to people, not a role model - because I make mistakes like everybody else. When I'm offstage, I'm just like everybody else.”
“The lyricism of marginality may find inspiration in the image of the ''outlaw,'' the great social nomad, who prowls on the confines of a docile, frightened order.”
“Don't let what you cannot do interfere with what you can do.”
“No matter what age you are, or what your circumstances might be, you are special, and you still have something unique to offer. Your life, because of who you are, has meaning.”
“Do not confuse motion and progress. A rocking horse keeps moving, but does not
make any progress.”
“Keep away from those who try to belittle your ambitions. Small people always do that, but the really great make you believe that you too can become great.”
“My great concern is not whether you have failed, but whether you are content with your failure.”
“The only thing that does not change, is change itself.”
“Everything you can imagine is real.”
“We should be taught not to wait for inspiration to start a thing. Action always generates inspiration. Inspiration seldom generates action.”
“People wrapped up in themselves make very small packages.”
“In art the hand can never execute anything higher than the heart can inspire”
“When You Accomodate Something You Are A Step Away From Accepting It.”
“I have seen three emperors in their nakedness, and the sight was not inspiring.”
“You can't stop loving or wanting to love because when its right, it's the best thing in the world. When you're in a relationship and it's good, even if nothing else in your life is right, you feel like your whole world is complete.”
“Argue for your limitations, and sure enough, they're yours.”
“My great concern is not whether you have failed, but whether you are content with your failure.”
“Today's patience can transform yesterday's discouragements into tomorrow's discoveries. Today's purposes can turn yesterday's defeats into tomorrow's determination.”
“How far would Moses have gone if he had taken a poll in Egypt?.”
“Love and kindness are never wasted. They always make a difference.They bless the one who receives them,and they bless you,the giver.”
“A real decision is measured by the fact that you've taken a new action. If there's no action, you haven't truly decided.”
“Never be afraid to trust an unknown future to a known God.”
“God has put somrthing noble and good into every heart His hand created.”
“You are in integrity when the life you are living on the outside matches who you are on the inside.”
“Don't wait until everything is just right. It will never be perfect. There will always be challenges, obstacles and less than perfect conditions. So what. Get started now. With each step you take, you will grow stronger and stronger, more and more skilled, more and more self-confident and more and more successful.”
“Joy is a net of love by which you can catch souls. A joyful heart is the inevitable result of a heart burning with love”
“Man's mind, once stretched by a new idea, never regains its original dimensions.”
“A man to carry on a successful business must have imagination. He must see things as in a vision, a dream of the whole thing.”
“Of all the possible avenues of life there are to live for, complacency should be viewed as the switch that killed the will to build.”
“I do the very best I know how, the very best I can, and I mean to keep on doing so until the end”
“Contentment is not something to be gained by possession.
You can not work simply at being content,
but must work at making a difference.
True contentment is gained
by the difference you make in the lives of others.”
“As a stone tumbled in coarse reality,
constantly worn as it is refined,
adversity, it's true beauty shows.
So it is by trial we find,
all that we are capable of, the strength which lies beneath.”
“Patience, persistence and perspiration make an unbeatable combination for success”
“There can be no deep disappointment where there is not deep love.”
“Love is a promise, love is a souvenir, once given never forgotten, never let it disappear.”
“At some point in your life if you're lucky you throw practicality to the wind and
start living.”
“There are some people who live in a dream world, and there are some who face reality; and then there are those who turn one into the other.”
“For everything you have missed, you have gained something else, and for everything you gain, you lose something else.”
“If you want something you have to go get it yourself or create it. That's all I'm doing this year. Creating my own destiny. Making my own success. Impossible is not in my vocabulary. If I want my own talk show, I will create it. If I want to produce a movie, I will. I WILL Succeed. Failure and Success are words we created. So why not create your destiny, your own words, your own empire.”
“Hold fast to your dreams, for without them life is a broken winged bird that cannot fly.”
“When I think of talking, it is of course with a woman. For talking at its best being an inspiration, it wants a corresponding divine quality of receptiveness, and where will you find this but in a woman?”
“Be who you are and say what you feel because those who mind don't matter and those who matter don't mind.”
“The ideals which have lighted my way, and time after time have given me new courage to face life cheerfully have been kindness, beauty, and truth”
“Peace cannot be kept by force; it can only be achieved by understanding.”
“Some days there won't be a song in your heart. Sing anyway.”
“We must all suffer one of two things: the pain of discipline or the pain of regret or disappointment.”
“The foundation stones for a balanced success are honesty, character, integrity, faith, love and loyalty.”
“Great Men & Fools do often me Inspire
But the Greater Fool the Greater Liar.”
“A 'NO' uttered from deepest conviction is better and greater than a 'YES' merely uttered to please, or what is worse, to avoid trouble.”
“But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. [Galatians 5:23, 24].”
“Love is a force more formidable than any other. It is invisible / it cannot be seen or measured, yet it is powerful enough to transform you in a moment, and offer you more joy than any material possession could.”
“Humor is the great thing, the saving thing. The minute it crops up, all our irritation and resentments slip away, and a sunny spirit takes their place.”
“Rule your mind or it will rule you”
“A life lived with integrity even if it lacks the trappings of fame and fortune is a
shining star in whose light others may follow in the years to come.”
“We are all travellers in the wilderness of this world, and the best we can find in our travels is an honest friend”
“All you need is deep within you waiting to unfold and reveal itself. All you have
to do is be still and take time to seek for what is within and you will surely find it.”
“It's a troublesome world. All the people who're in it 
are troubled with troubles almost every minute. 
You ought to be thankful, a whole heaping lot,
for the places and people you're lucky you're not.”
“I am free, no matter what rules surround me. If I find them tolerable, I tolerate them; if I find them too obnoxious, I break them. I am free because I know that I alone am morally responsible for everything I do.”
“The search for wisdom is a great challenge; to act on wisdom is an even greater challenge.”
“When inspiration does not come, I go for a walk, go to the movie, talk to a friend, let go . . . The muse is bound to return again, especially if I turn my back!”
“Nothing great was ever achieved without enthusiasm.”
“Life is to be fortified by many friendships. To love and to be loved is the greatest happiness of existence.”
“I would much rather have regrets about not doing what people said, than regretting not doing what my heart led me to and wondering what life had been like if I'd just been myself.”
“The bird a nest, the spider a web, man friendship.”
“Work like you don't need the money. Love like you've never been hurt. Dance like nobody's watching.”
“Make the most of whatever it is that floats your boat…”
“You won’t know the power of the journey until you step up each rung of the ladder toward what you want. Then, even if you get to the top and find this dream is no longer desirable, you will be viewing life from a higher vantage point and you will have grown in you’re ability to chase your dreams.”
“Inspiration exists, but it has to find us working.”
“The times in our lives in which we feel that we have the least power are actually
the times when we have the most. Those are the times in which we affirm or
redefine who we are, what we believe, and make choices that can impact
ourselves and those we encounter for a lifetime.”
“It is from numberless diverse acts of courage and belief that human history is
shaped. Each time a man stands up for an ideal, or acts to improve the lot of
others, or strikes out against injustice, he sends a tiny ripple of hope, and crossing
each other from a million different centers of energy and daring those ripples
build a current which can sweep down the mightiest walls of oppression and
resistance.”
“He's a pretty inspirational kid -- he's kind of becoming my hero.”
“What would life be if we had no courage to attempt anything?”
“My biggest inspiration has been romantic relationships, because there's something about the way that you are in a relationship that is reflective of your relationship with the world.”
“All lasting business is built on friendship.”
“What do we live for; if it is not to make life less difficult to each other?”
“The unexamined life is not worth living.”
“The inspiration for this was my son, who's 18, ... I was playing some old Sun Records, and he and his friends rushed into the room and loved it. I thought that if I did a Sun tribute record I could get more young people to listen to it.”
“Fight the Pain, Love the Reason”
“Live in the sunshine, swim the sea, drink the wild air…”
“To motivate man is to move a mountain!”
“We should imbibe inspiring thoughts and should follow the righteous path. If this is done then progress is sure and certain. ”
“Water the seeds by the Word of God and that will pump off the weeds in your life.”
“Sometimes the easiest way to get through today, is to simply have something to look forward to tomorrow.”
“Adversity causes some men to break; others to break records.”
“Keep on sowing your seed, for you never know which will grow -- perhaps it all will.”
“Oh, Spring! I want to go out and feel you and get inspiration. My old things seem dead. I want fresh contacts, more vital searching.”
“A goal is a dream with a deadline,”
“To make a good movie, you have to make people laugh. To make a great movie, however, you have to make them cry.”
“Never, never, never, never give up.”
“Life is not about perfection, it's more about progess.”
“Just as appetite comes by eating, so work brings inspiration, if inspiration is not discernible at the beginning.”
“How sad.
The Past
happens so soon
and is never reconvened.”
“Life is not about perfection, it's more about progess.”
“A friendship like love is warm; a love like friendship is steady.”
“Sales are contingent upon the attitude of the salesman - not the attitude of the prospect.”
“Your mind doesn't know the difference between reality and fantasy. Your mind
acts on what you feed it. Feed it good thoughts.”
“Opportunities are like sunrises -- if you wait too long, you miss them.”
“Are your thoughts entangling you in fear and building you a nest of negativity or encircling you with love and crowning you with power?”
“When you face your fear, most of the time you will discover that it was not really such a big threat after all. We all need some form of deeply rooted, powerful motivation / it empowers us to overcome obstacles so we can live our dreams.”
“The first half of my life I went to school, the second half of my life I got an education.”
“Leadership is not magnetic personality/that can just as well be a glib tongue. It is not making friends and influencing people /that is flattery. Leadership is lifting a person's vision to higher sights, the raising of a person's performance to a higher standard, the building of a personality beyond its normal limitations.”
“Is there a speed limit on love?”
“Education should mainly be about teaching our children useful knowledge, insight and common sense instead of facts that they would use on jeopardy that can make too many students tired of education and fail or drop out of education. The success of a school is not about how many students graduate butwhat they become when during and after they are done.”
“If you were the only person on the planet, Christ would have died just for you.”
“Conflict cannot survive without your participation.”
“Your task is not to seek for love, but merely to seek and find all the barriers within yourself that you have built against it.”
“The consciousness of loving and being loved brings a warmth and richness to life
that nothing else can bring.”
“Although there are things that just tend to rub you the wrong way too! Smile and move on your choice!”
“Effort only fully releases its reward after a person refuses to quit.”
“A great leader's courage to fulfill his vision comes from passion, not position.”
“Don't let them beat down your spirit and the spirit of your ideas go with reality and what seems natural to you ...transpire within this Universe and together we shall have a goal.”
“We can do anything we want to do if we stick to it long enough”
“Your mind is like a rubberband - you can expand it as much or as little as you want.”
“The world is a great mirror. It reflects back to you what you are. If you are
loving, if you are friendly, if you are helpful, the world will prove loving and
friendly and helpful to you. The world is what you are.”
“I never worry about diets. The only carrots that interest me are the number of carats in a diamond.”
“Learn how to be happy with what you have while you pursue all that you want.”
“Character may be manifested in the great moments, but it is made in the small ones.”
“Lots of people want to ride with you in the limo, but what you want is someone who will take the bus with you when the limo breaks down.”
“When the world tells me i'm immature, I tell the world i'm just enjoying life, and the simple things it has to offer.”
“Change your thoughts, and you change your world”
“Love must have wings to fly away from love, and to fly back again”
“I am looking for a lot of men who have an infinite capacity to not know what can't be done.”
“You can spend minutes, hours, days, weeks or even months over-analyzing a situation; trying to put the pieces together, justifying what could've would've happened...or you can just leave the pieces on the floor and move the fuck on.”
“Life is a great big canvas, and you should throw all the paint on it you can”
“If you don’t set goals for yourself, you are doomed to work to achieve the goals
of someone else.”
“If today was the day you were finally going to win, did you show up?”
“Long range planning works best in the short term.”
“The ideal friendship is to feel as one while remaining two.”
“Do not be embarrassed by your mistakes. Nothing can teach us better than our
understanding of them. This is one of the best ways of selfeducation.”
“A smart man reads the quotes; a wise man lives by the quotes.”
“There are vast untapped resources of faith and talent that can only be discovered
in adversity.”
“Imagination is the beginning of creation. You imagine what you desire, you will what you imagine and at last you create what you will.”
“A man is but the product of his thoughts what he thinks, he becomes.”
“To love what you do and feel that it matters how could anything be more fun?”
“If you love it enough, anything will talk with you.”
“The first requisite for success is the ability to apply your physical and mental energies to one problem incessantly without growing weary.”
“Christianity simply does not make sense until you have faced the sort of facts I have been describing. Christianity tells people to repent and promises them forgiveness. It therefore has nothing (as far as I know) to say to people who do not know they have done anything to repent of and who do not feel that they need forgiveness.”
“We don't read and write poetry because it's cute. We read and write poetry because we are members of the human race. And the human race is filled with passion.And medicine, law, business, engineering - these are noble pursuits and necessary to sustain life. But poetry, beauty, romance, love - these are what we stay alive for.”
“What the mind of man can conceive and believe, it can achieve.”
“I have always succeeded especially when I knew that they believed I wouldn't.”
“Stepping stones to the top don't always go up”
“It takes years to develop into the kind of human being you want to be.”
“AdJusT youRSElf beCominG tHe pErson yOu moStlY pRoud tO be Who You thInK ReAlly hAs tHe bEst PlAce iN yOu bY beIng inDiffereNt amonG aLL thE reGreTs aNd FailUreS WhiCh WilL be The fRaGrance Of yOur FutuRe BleSSings...”
“The things he did inspired me to play the game at that level, ... When I retired in 1999, I grounded out to second and gave it everything I had running down to first base in my last at-bat. I always felt if I disrespected the game by not hustling and giving everything I had, it's circumstances of cheating the fans — you're cheating the fans, you're cheating your teammates and disrespecting the name that's on the front of your jersey.”
“There comes a time when you have to stand up and shout:
This is me damn it! I look the way I look, think the way I think, feel the way I feel, love the way I love! I am a whole complex package. Take me... or leave me. Accept me - or walk away! Do not try to make me feel like less of a person, just because I don't fit your idea of who I should be and don't try to change me to fit your mold. If I need to change, I alone will make that decision.
When you are strong enough to love yourself 100%, good and bad - you will be amazed at the opportunities that life presents you.”
“We cannot really love anyone with with whom we never laugh”
“I wait for the headlines to inspire me.”
“Life Begins but Life does End. Life can win, But life can Bend.
Life can give and life can Take.
Life can Love and life can Hate.
So ladies and gents, i ask you this.
Think about the words, which pass through my lips.
Tomorrow has come, Yesterday has passed.
Look to the future, forget about the past.
Think about next week, next month and then after.
Fill your life with joy, good friends and laughter.
Life can be cruel and life can be fast.
So we must cherish every moment, As if it's our last.”
“You're brilliant beyond compare.”
“I find it fascinating that most people plan their vacations with better care than they plan their lives. Perhaps that is because escape is easier than change.”
“We are all teachers, and we teach what we most need to learn, over and over again, until we get it.”
“Forgiveness with judgement is resistance of forgiveness.”
“It is our choices that show what we truly are, far more than our abilities.”
“Wake up each day and live your life like a maniac”
“Believe that you possess a basic goodness, which is the foundation for the greatness you can ultimately achieve.”
“There are two ways of spreading light: to be the candle or the mirror that reflects it.”
“Love is the only flower that grows and blossoms Without the aid of the seasons.”
“If you would be loved, love, and be loveable”
“It is hard to fail, but it is worse never to have tried to succeed. In this life we get nothing save by effort.”
“The end always doesn't justify the means you used to reach there.”
“What lies behind you and what lies in front of you, pales in comparison to what lies inside of you.”
“All who have accomplished great things have had a great aim, have fixed their gaze on a goal which was high, one which sometimes seemed impossible.”
“Love is a friendship set to music.”
“The one you love and the one who loves you are never, ever the same person.”
“True happiness is being able to see the beauty of life through your own eyes rather than having to be convinced of it by another.”
“To be trusted is a greater compliment than being loved.”
“Honesty is the first chapter in the book of wisdom.”
“Define your personal dignity today. Make a list of the positive internal qualities
that you value that never change. Read it every morning and evening to remind
yourself that no matter what you meet in the course of the day, regardless of the
actions of others, no one can define who you are but you.”
“sometimes, you just have to let people go. No matter how much you don't want to and no matter how much it will hurt you, you will eventually realize it's for the best”
“Clouds come floating into my life, no longer to carry rain or usher storm, but to add color to my sunset sky.”
“Conviction is worthless unless it is converted into conduct.”
“Let love be your greatest aim”
“I picked up the 'HTML Manual of Style,' and for inspiration I picked up Negroponte's 'Being Digital,' got on a plane, flew to the Bahamas and sat on a beach and read these books, ... And a week later, came home and started building the Web site myself.”
“Smiles are the language of love.”
“All love that has not friendship for its base, is like a mansion built upon the sand.”
“I need no inspiration other then Nature's. She has never failed me yet. She mystifies me, bewilders me, sends me into ecstasies. Besides God's handiwork, does not man's fade into insignificance?”
“These are times in which a genius would wish to live. It is not in the still calm of life, or the repose of a pacific station, that great characters are formed. The habits of a vigorous mind are formed in contending with difficulties. Great necessities call out great virtues.”
“We can do anything we want if we stick to it long enough.”
“One is not simply given a god given gift; it is through the sweat, determination and mindset of that individual that sets him a part from you and I.”
“It's energizing and inspirational just to spend an hour or two with you here.”
“If one hater can discourage you to the point that you have to alter your dreams,,, then you weren't meant to go down that path... An army of haters can’t stop me from accomplishing my purpose.. Be strong”
“Dream your dreams with your eyes closed, but live your dreams with your eyes open.”
“Part of growing up is just taking what you learn from that and moving on and not taking it to heart.”
“We have not come into the world to be numbered; we have been created for a purpose; for great things: to love and be loved.”
“It is a mistake to look too far ahead. Only one link in the chain of destiny can be handled at a time.”
“Happiness is when what you think, what you say, and what you do are in harmony.”
“A brother is a friend God gave you; a friend is a brother your heart chose for you.”
“I'm looking for love. Real love. Ridiculous, inconvenient, consuming, can't-live-without-each-other love.”
“Truth never needs to justify itself.”
“Our greatest glory is not in never falling, but in getting up every time we do.”
“The inspiration to write? Perhaps it's not so much inspiration, as a NEED to write. I get itchy and guilty and dissatisfied when I haven't written for a while. Ideas come to me and need to be written down.”
“You better Praise Him in your storm because they build you up, not to tear you down!”
“The innate power you possess to achieve your dreams is immeasurable.”
“The biggest mistake that you can make is to believe that you are working for somebody else. Job security is gone. The driving force of a career must come from the individual. Remember: Jobs are owned by the company, you own your career!”
“When written in Chinese, the word "crisis" is composed of two characters-one represents danger, and the other represents opportunity.”
“I wanna be the closest thing to you, something like your bed.”
“You just forget it's there, ... Dreamer: Inspired by a True Story.”
“Nothing but heaven itself is better than a friend who is really a friend.”
“Do not compromise yourself and put your goodness in the same impermanent category as whatever circumstance happening. Be the best you in every circumstance.”
“Those that know, do. Those that understand, teach.”
“We should not let our fears hold us back from pursuing our hopes”
“Tenderness and kindness are not signs of weakness and despair but manifestations of strength and resolution”
“True love is like ghosts, which everybody talks about and few have seen.”
“Simplicity is the ultimate sophistication.”
“It is no use saying, 'We are doing our best.' You have got to succeed in doing what is necessary.”
“You don't have to be married to have a good friend as your partner for life.”
“Imagine all the people living life in peace. You may say I'm a dreamer, but I'm not the only one. I hope someday you'll join us, and the world will be as one.”
“Love sees no faults.”
“One of the hardest things in life is having words in your heart that you can't utter.”
“Time is our most valuable asset, yet we tend to waste it, kill it, and spend it
rather than invest it.”
“That is a big danger, losing your inspiration. When I work in film and television I try to do each take a little differently. I never want to do the same thing twice, because then you're not being spontaneous, you're just recreating something.”
“How would your life be different if…You walked away from gossip and verbal defamation? Let today be the day…You speak only the good you know of other people and encourage others to do the same.”
“Knock on the sky and listen to the sound”
“There is nothing more dreadful than the habit of doubt. Doubt separates people. It is a poison that disintegrates friendships and breaks up pleasant relations. It is a thorn that irritates and hurts; it is a sword that kills.”
“The women who inspired this play deserved to be smacked across the head with a meat ax and that, I flatter myself, is exactly what I smacked them with.”
“It is NOT what you could of done BUT it’s what you DID DO, NOT what you could do BUT what you WILL DO.”
“When we create something, we always create it first in a thought form. If we are basically positive in attitude, expecting and envisioning pleasure, satisfaction and happiness, we will attract and create people, situations, and events which conform to our positive expectations.”
“You will know what to live for when you determine what you're willing to die for.”
“Why Should I Think Out Of The Box , When I Can Create My Own Box”
“Every problem has a limited life span.”
“There have been many different artists that have been inspirational. I suppose the question is directed to what was the reason why I went into fantasy illustration.”
“No one can make you feel inferior without your consent.”
“When you cannot make up your mind which of two evenly balanced courses of action you should take - choose the bolder.”
“We have a secret in our culture, and it's not that birth is painful. It's that women are strong.”
“Do not anticipate trouble or worry about what may never happen. Keep in the sunlight.”
“True friendship is not measured in days or decades.”
“When we extend ourselves to another human being in any way at all, when we
positively touch the life of one person, we benefit the whole of humanity.”
“You have to leave the city of your comfort and go into the wilderness of your intuition. What you'll discover will be wonderful. What you'll discover is yourself.”
“Who among us does not have flaws?
Who does not bear scars?
Each of our journeys unique.
Our adversities leave upon us lasting marks.
They show us all that we have overcome.
Life; a constant struggle,
and by choosing not to give in, we rise above.”
“Art is not what you see, but what you make others see.”
“Freedom is not worth having if it does not include the freedom to make mistakes.”
“An artist's duty is rather to stay open-minded and in a state where he can receive information and inspiration. You always have to be ready for that little artistic Epiphany.”
“My interest is in the future because I am going to spend the rest of my life there”
“Look into your heart and find your real self,
Put your mask away and show your real face!
Put your vision to reality. Wake Up and Live!”
“A wise man will make more opportunities than he finds.”
“You are the one who inspire everybody to do his duty; I am inspired by your 'inspiration of duty';You are directly or indirectly involved with each and every action that takes place in this world. ”
“As the sun shines on everyone- saint and sinner, so does God's love.”
“IN ORDER FOR SOMETHING TO MATTER TO YOU, YOU ACTUALLY HAVE TO CARE.”
“Is it so bad to be misunderstood? Pythagoras was misunderstood, and Socrates, and Jesus, and Luther, and Copernicus, and Galileo, and Newton, and every pure and wise spirit that ever took flesh.”
“Educating the mind without educating the heart is no education at all”
“People are not lazy. They simply have impotent goals / that is, goals that do not inspire them.”
“Inspiration is God making contact with itself.”
“Nobody grows old merely by living a number of years. We grow old by
deserting our ideals.”
“The hunger for love is much more difficult to remove than the hunger for bread.”
“The person who seeks all their applause from outside has their happiness in another's keeping .”
“Lessons may be viewed as difficulties or challenges to be overcome, but in
reality they are an exercise in fine tuning that will make our efforts more effective
in the long run. We are developing skills, attitudes, and perspectives that we need
to move forward with insight and awareness.”
“Time the most precious gift one can give. Each moment is unique because it will never happen again…the gift of your time spent with others is the ultimate display of unconditional love.”
“Life is my college. May I graduate well, and earn some honors!”
“A great pleasure in life is doing what people say you cannot do.”
“Happiness is that state of consciousness which proceeds from the achievement of one's values.”
“God, who foresaw your tribulation, has specially armed you to go through it, not without pain but without stain”
“It is love alone that gives worth to all things”
“Everything you are against weakens you. Everything you are for empowers you.”
“In certainty there is limitation; in uncertainty there is the loving magic of infinity dancing with our desires.”
“The strength of any organization is a direct result of the strength of its leaders. Weak leaders equal weak organizations. Strong leaders equal strong organizations. Everything rises and falls on leadership.”
“Friendship is the only cure for hatred, the only guarantee of peace.”
“I'm afraid sometimes 
you'll play lonely games too,
games you can't win
because you'll play against you”
“Satisfaction lies in the effort not the attainment. Full effort is full victory.”
“Some time ago, nature changed the world as I knew it. It left no apologies, no remorse... waves and winds leaving me with nothing to call my own. Or so I thought. Now five years later, I look back and see all what it has given me. Courage, resilience, empowerment... the list goes on and on. Things that no one can ever take away from me. And for that, I am eternally grateful.”
“Sometimes we strive so hard for perfection that we forget that imperfection is happiness”
“To be yourself in a world that is constantly trying to make you something else is the greatest accomplishment.”
“To make the right choices in life, you have to get in touch with your soul. To do
this, you need to experience solitude, which most people are afraid of, because in
the silence you hear the truth and know the solutions.”
“Love takes off masks that we fear we cannot live without and know we cannot live within.”
“I’d rather be hated for who I am…than loved for someone I’m not…I’m definitely not perfect…but work with what I’ve got…I can be stubborn…and maybe a little too bold…when life gets rough…I don’t give up instead I take hold…I’m passionate about life…and love to dream…yep I’m exactly…who I want to be…my heart is open wide…with plenty of room to grow…you can take me as I am…or watch me as I go…”
“I was inspired by all the images coming out of New Orleans.”
“30 years from now, man won't ask himself what he has accomplished, he'll ask himself what he hasn't accomplished, which leaves man with only one option: accomplish everything.”
“The packages are trying to engage the consumer in such a way that they're inspired to buy the product.”
“For the friendship of two, the patience of one is required.”
“People who live in their own little world, never get to enjoy the world of others.”
“The fact that I inspire you - inspires me.”
“Life is colored by the people we meet... but defined by the ones we love.”
“They cannot take away our self-respect if we do not give it to them.”
“You may fool all the people some of the time, you can even fool some of the people all of the time, but you cannot fool all of the people all the time.”
“The most important human endeavor is the striving for morality in our actions. Our inner balance and even our very existence depend on it. Only morality in our actions can give beauty and dignity to life.”
“Do your work with your whole heart, and you will succeed - there's so little competition.”
“Genius is eternal patience.”
“Even the rich are hungry for love, for being cared for, for being wanted, for having someone to call their own.”
“I used to try so hard to fit in with everybody else. But then, I realized that everyone else didn't fit in with me.”
“Make the most of whatever it is that floats your boat…”
“An optimist stays up until midnight to see the new year in. A pessimist stays up to make sure the old year leaves.”
“Friendship is like money, easier made than kept.”
“I'm a DIVA: Daughter of The King, Inner Beauty, Virtuous Woman, Abundantly Living Her Life”
“Like any other living, growing thing, love requires effort to keep it healthy.”
“Fear closes us down, play helps the spirit flourish”
“The veil of confusion gently falls away,
Like the dank mist on a dull autumn day.
Revealing the path that lies there before me,
To step forward or not, what will it be?”
““The only thing in this world that matters is life, because without life, nothing else will matter.””
“Love cannot express the idea of music, while music may give an idea of love”
“LOVE Life and LIFE will Love you back”
“Michael Jackson was not a sort of ingredient or an inspiration for the character at all.”
“In each of us are places where we have never gone. Only by pressing the limits do
you ever find them.”
“Love is an alliance of friendship and animalism; if the former predominates it is passion exalted and refined; if the latter, gross and sensual.”
“Never forget the three powerful resources you always have available to you: love, prayer, and forgiveness.”
“It's The Things A Person Does When They Aren't Paying Attention To What Others May Think About Them That Are The True Windows To Their Souls.”
“DRUGS TAKE YOU TO HELL, DISGUISED AS HEAVEN”
“Daring ideas are like chessmen moved forward. They may be beaten, but they may start a winning game.”
“To love for the sake of being loved is human, but to love for the sake of loving is angelic.”
“Life shrinks or expands in proportion to one's courage.”
“Life is not a continuum of pleasant choices, but of inevitable problems that call for strength, determination, and hard work”
“Finish each day and be done with it. You have done what you could; some
blunders and absurdities no doubt crept in, forget them as soon as you can.
Tomorrow is a new day, begin it well and serenely and with too high a spirit to be
encumbered with your old nonsense.”
“"Each day gives the opportunity for you to be treated right, to feel worthy, and to be successful. It’s a choice you have to make, faith you have to have, and it’s a truth about you that you only need to see.””
“Music in the soul can be heard by the universe.”
“Live in the sunshine, swim the sea, drink the wild air…”
“one has to take chances, perhaps take a risk to fall in love and live life to the fullest...overall, just "be in the moment" because every second spent angry or upset is a second of happiness you can never recoup.”
“The talent for being happy is appreciating and liking what you have, instead of what you don't have.”
“It seems we are constantly in search of true happiness, which seems to be an illusion that escapes us. I believe happiness is found only in unpredictable and tender moments”
“Getting older is about dropping your old ways in front of you forming a new pathway to walk on towards a new you.”
“You were born to win, but to be a winner, you must plan to win, prepare to win, and expect to win.”
“My specialty is being right when other people are wrong”
“When I Asked God for Strength 
He Gave Me Difficult Situations to Face 
When I Asked God for Brain & Brown 
He Gave Me Puzzles in Life to Solve 
When I Asked God for Happiness 
He Showed Me Some Unhappy People 
When I Asked God for Wealth 
He Showed Me How to Work Hard 
When I Asked God for Favors 
He Showed Me Opportunities to Work Hard 
When I Asked God for Peace 
He Showed Me How to Help Others 
God Gave Me Nothing I Wanted 
He Gave Me Everything I Needed.”
“Let us move on, and step out boldly, though it be into the night, and we can
scarcely see the way.”
“If you want to change the world, why don't you start with yourself”
“The good news is that the bad news can be turned into good news when you
change your attitude.”
“Other people's opinion of you does not have to become your reality.”
“All the great things are simple, and many can be expressed in a single word: freedom; justice; honor; duty; mercy; hope”
“When we feel, some kind of lyrics is sung within our heart. When we think, some kind of instrument is played within our mind. In harmony, both create a beautiful symphony of life.”
“Suppose you were an idiot and suppose you were a member of Congress. But I repeat myself”
“You fall flat on your face, and it's not the first time you've done it, Never let your past press you down.”
“You only live once, but if you do it right, once is enough.”
“I think it was inspirational. Not many people in their life ever get to play against the best. And when you play against the best you tend to learn and become better yourself.”
“To fill the hour, and leave no crevice ... that is happiness.”
“The world is round and the place which may seem like the end may also be only the beginning.”
“Only after we can learn to forgive ourselves can we accept others as they are
because we don't feel threatened by anything about them which is better than us.”
“Compassion does not mean to be solicitous to someone who appears to be stray,
imperfect, or needy. It means to see that person as we see ourselves, as unique
human beings with wants, hopes, needs, dreams, and desires.”
“People often say that motivation doesn't last. Well, neither does bathing - that's why we recommend it daily.”
“When i die i would rather be remembered for my accomplishments not my personality”
““Each day wake up and ask yourself what will make you feel most alive that day.””
“The meaning to life. Is to live.”
“Living with integrity means: Not settling for less than what you know you deserve in your relationships. Asking for what you want and need from others. Speaking your truth, even though it might create conflict or tension. Behaving in ways that are in harmony with your personal values. Making choices based on what you believe, and not what others believe.”
“My belief in the alien existence has made me change my previous views on God. All this time, I believe that God is almighty.
But apparently, I know somehow that even God's creations are far more fantastic than I could imagine.”
“where there is passion there is progress”
“Never react emotionally to criticism. Analyze yourself to determine whether it is
justified. If it is, correct yourself. Otherwise, go on about your business.”
“One of life's best coping mechanisms is to know the difference between an inconvenience and a problem. If you break your neck, if you have nothing to eat, if your house is on fire, then you've got a problem. Everything else is an inconvenience. Life is inconvenient. Life is lumpy. A lump in the oatmeal, a lump in the throat and a lump in the breast are not the same kind of lump. One needs to learn the difference.”
“I know of no more encouraging fact than the unquestionable ability of man to elevate his life by conscious endeavor.”
“You have a truth inside of you which never changes. It is the essence of who you are. The mind resists this, precipitated by sometimes even the most subtle forms of fear which are engrained in your biological makeup over generations, and your life history. Science shows that along with man, consciousness is evolving. Through mindful awareness, we have more choice and flexibility in what we do with our attention. This means that there is always an opportunity to better the world we share.”
“You are an Original that can't be Duplicated! Embrace that and Celebrate Your Uniqueness because God does.”
“Without a sense of urgency, desire loses its value.”
“You are not here merely to make a living. You are here in order to enable the world to live more amply, with greater vision, with a finer spirit of hope and achievement. You are here to enrich the world, and you impoverish yourself if you forget the errand.”
“God makes three requests of his children: Do the best you can, where you are, with what you have, now”
“Keep away from people who try to belittle your ambitions. Small people always
do that, but the really great make you feel that you, too, can become great.”
“A smart man reads the quotes; a wise man lives by the quotes.”
“What I cannot love, I overlook”
“The higher your energy level, the more efficient your body The more efficient your body, the better you feel and the more you will use your talent to produce outstanding results.”
“If you can spend a perfectly useless afternoon in a perfectly useless manner, you have learned how to live.”
“Accept yourself as you are. Otherwise you will never see opportunity. You will not feel free to move toward it; you will feel you are not deserving.”
“If today was the day you were finally going to win, did you show up?”
“The inspiration came suddenly again to surrender to the Mother. It was quite unexpected: And so somehow I made a surrender to the Mother. Then I had an experience of overwhelming love. Waves of love sort of flowed into me.”
“Adding racial accusation to the standing difficulty does not serve one victim, feed a single child, inspire a single person,”
“We cannot live only for ourselves. A thousand fibers connect us with our
fellowmen; and along those fibers, as sympathetic threads, our actions run as
causes, and they come back to us as effects.”
“We are not victims by nature...we are programmed to be victims...for good reason...if we truly embraced our power, we would never be controlled. Live WISE~”
“All people who made it at one time thought they could never make it.”
“Love yourself first and everything falls into line”
“I love hearts. They are symbols for life, love and humanity.”
“Honor your commitments with integrity.”
“A deadline is negative inspiration. Still, it's better than no inspiration at all.”
“As the valley gives height to the mountain, so can sorrow give meaning to pleasure; as the well is the source of the fountain, deep adversity can be a treasure.”
“If you get caught up in things over which you have no control, it will adversely
affect those things over which you have control.”
“Sing like no one's listening, love like you've never been hurt, dance like nobody's watching, and live like its heaven on earth.”
“It's my experience that it's better to walk away from a potential good deal than live with a bad one.”
“Business, you know, may bring money, but friendship hardly ever does.”
“Loving can cost a lot but not loving always costs more, and those who fear to love often find that want of love is an emptiness that robs the joy from life.”
“I believe life is constantly testing us for our level of commitment, and life's greatest rewards are reserved for those who demonstrate a never-ending commitment to act until they achieve. This level of resolve can move mountains, but it must be constant and consistent. As simplistic as this may sound, it is still the common denominator separating those who live their dreams from those who live in regret.”
“My best friends are books, I can easily read them and take them wherever I go.”
“Don't wait until everything is just right. It will never be perfect. There will always be challenges, obstacles and less than perfect conditions. So what. Get started now. With each step you take, you will grow stronger and stronger, more and more skilled, more and more self-confident and more and more successful.”
“The tears of faithfulness to your beliefs cleanse your spirit to envision the road ahead. Everything is possible for the person who believes.”
“Character cannot be developed in ease and quiet. Only through experiences of trial and suffering can the soul be strengthened, vision cleared, ambition inspired and success achieved.”
“You cannot do a kindness too soon, for you never know how soon it will be too late.”
“I have friends in overalls whose friendship I would not swap for the favor of the kings of the world.”
“There are two ways to live: you can live as if nothing is a miracle; you can live as if everything is a miracle.”
“Win win agreements are tremendously liberating. But as the product of isolated
techniques, they won't hold up. Even if you set them up in the beginning, there is
no way to maintain them without personal integrity and a relationship of trust.”
“Keep peace in your soul, love in your heart, wisdom on your shoulder and grace on your lips...
Everyone has been given these gifts, if we all learned how to use them better and better each day, our world would be such a beautiful place...”
“You are the one who inspire everybody to do his duty; I am inspired by your 'inspiration of duty';You are directly or indirectly involved with each and every action that takes place in this world. ”
“I want a lover I don't have to love”
“Stay the course, light a star,
Change the world where'er you are.”
“Success is restricted only from those who restrict themselves from success.”
“Your inspiration continues to guide us toward our personal liberation.”
“The enlightened one should inspire others by performing all works efficiently without attachment.”
“Your children need your presence more than your presents.”
“The best way to cheer yourself is to try to cheer somebody else up.”
“You don't get out of life what you want, you get what you expect.”
“Yes, we must ever be friends; and of all who offer you friendship let me be ever the first, the truest, the nearest and dearest!”
“Great managers are recognized through the achievements of their team.”
“I got to thank God because that's my inspiration for everything that I do.”
“If you don't set a baseline standard for what you'll accept in life, you'll find it's easy to slip into behaviors and attitudes or a quality of life that's far below what you deserve.”
“Quality questions create a quality life. Successful people ask better questions, and as a result, they get better answers.”
“Love has reasons which reason cannot understand.”
“Nobody inspired me more than Julie Andrews, who is a classically trained soprano herself.”
“Love doesn't make the world go 'round. Love is what makes the ride worthwhile.”
“Kata Kanjeng Nabi: "The best man is the most beneficial for each other".”
“Never lose sight of your dreams, for your dreams can be your guidance.”
“When a work lifts your spirits and inspires bold and noble thoughts in you, do not look for any other standard to judge by: the work is good, the product of a master craftsman”
“To what greater inspiration and counsel can we turn than to the imperishable truth to be found in this treasure house, the Bible?”
“Don't trust people that you have only heard great stories of”
“strip away everything they have and if you see them survive this is what defines who they are”
“To dream anything that you want to dream. That's the beauty of the human mind. To do anything that you want to do. That is the strength of the human will. To trust yourself to test your limits. That is the courage to succeed.”
“Friendship is Love without his wings!”
“I will not know peace until this storm dies off or goes away forever”
“Mankind must evolve for all human conflict a method which rejects revenge, aggression, and retaliation. The foundation of such a method is love.”
“Prayer is not asking. It is a longing of the soul. It is daily admission of one's weakness. It is better in prayer to have a heart without words than words without a heart.”
“There are two mistakes one can make along the road to truth...not going all the way, and not starting.”
“Friendship is a strong and habitual inclination in two persons to promote the good and happiness of one another.”
“Do not seek the because - in love there is no because, no reason, no explanation, no solutions.”
“Every change starts in a small step. Let’s make that small step together.”
“I was not the inspiration for 'Kramer'”
“Though we are on the earth, we can still touch the sky with our determination”
“The function of leadership is to produce more leaders, not more followers.”
““To 'LOVE' and to feel 'LOVE' costs nothing. yet make's you feel the riches human alive.””
“The first ten thousand miles is the hardest to walk.”
“It is under fire that the metal is softened and or melted then molded into a useful form.”
“You can love someone with hate, but you can't hate someone with love.”
“Persons of high selfesteem are not driven to make themselves superior to others;
they do not seek to prove their value by measuring themselves against a
comparative standard. Their joy is being who they are, not in being better than
someone else.”
“The book is there for inspiration and as a foundation, the fundamentals on which to build.”
“Anything can happen in this world. It is a crazy place, but as long as we have each other we can overcome anything life throws at us. Just have to believe in ourselves and keep moving forward.”
“It's possible to love a human being if you don't know them too well.”
“True heroism consists in being superior to the ills of life, in whatever shape they may challenge us to combat.”
“Don't sparkle for a second, shine for a life time, don't be the I was. Be the IM”
“When the puddle gets too deep you just walk around it.”
“Aim for success not perfection... Remember that fear always lurks behind
perfectionism. Confronting your fears and allowing yourself the right to be human
can, paradoxically, make you a far happier and more productive person.”
“Remember always that you not only have the right to be an individual, you have an obligation to be one.”
“If you don't like something, change it. If you can't change it, change your attitude.”
“It is easy to halve the potato where there is love.”
“‎~ Carry your anger around in one hand, and a poisonous spider in the other, both are dangerous, the difference? Your anger is more likely to strike you first. ~”
“What I think about, I bring about. The thought of success will foster success. The
thought of love will foster love. The thought of security will foster security. What
am I thinking about today?”
“Continuing to be domainated by resistance to the expression of who you really are means that you perpetually live life in a subtle state of fear.”
“We are eagles of one nest - the nest is in our soul.”
“Self-acceptance comes from meeting life's challenges vigorously. Don't numb yourself to your trials and difficulties, nor build mental walls to exclude pain from your life. You will find peace not by trying to escape your problems, but by confronting them courageously. You will find peace not in denial, but in victory.”
“I believe in Christianity as I believe that the sun has risen: not only because I see it, but because by it I see everything else.”
“To live in this single moment,
this lightest breath, this softest touch,
to be captured by this smallest, this briefest space of time,
to be fully present, alive, consumed in this instant alone,
this is truly living.”
“Have faith in your dreams and someday Your rainbow will come shining through.
No matter how your heart is grieving, if you keep believing The dream that you
wish will come true.”
“Success is like reaching an important birthday and finding you're exactly the same.”
“Success is the maximum utilization of the ability that you have.”
“Stepping stones to the top don't always go up”
“If someone hurts you, take a moment for the pain, learn the lesson from it and make your life better than before.”
“If you will call your troubles experiences, and remember that every experience develops some latent force within you, you will grow vigorous and happy, however adverse your circumstances may seem to be.”
“Give me excitement, give me love, give me uncertainty, give me the life unknown.”
“Partial Insomniac. Nice Person. Sometimes Brooding. ... Partially inspired. Nice Idea. Sometimes Boring.”
“Courage is not a virtue or value among other personal values like love or fidelity.
It is the foundation that underlies and gives reality to all other virtues and personal
values.”
““All the so-called "secrets of success" will not work unless you do.””
“One of the beautiful things about baseball is that every once in a while you come into a situation where you want to, and where you have to, reach down and prove something.”
“We are born with the answers - we just have to ask the right questions.”
“Bad artists copy. Good artists steal.”
“The action required to sustain human life is primarily intellectual: everything man needs has to be discovered by his mind and produced by his effort”
“It is one of the most beautiful compensations of this life that no man can
sincerely try to help another without helping himself.”
“I want to be thoroughly used up when I die, for the harder I work the more I live. I rejoice in life for its own sake.”
“The liar's punishment is not in the least that he is not believed, but that he cannot believe anyone else.”
“In the end it is not the years in your life that count. It is the life in your years”
“Joy increases as you give it, and diminishes as you try to keep it for yourself. In
giving it, you will accumulate a deposit of joy greater than you ever believed
possible.”
“Be yourself; everyone else is already taken.”
“In every CHOICES that we choose, There's always a RISK; But always remember that there's also a chance”
“Creativity is inventing, experimenting, growing, taking risks, breaking rules, making mistakes, and having fun.”
“Let us rise up and be thankful, for if we didn't learn a lot today, at least we learned a little, and if we didn't learn a little, at least we didn't get sick, and if we got sick, at least we didn't die; so, let us all be thankful.”
“The strongest oak of the forest is not the one that is protected from the storm and
hidden from the sun. It's the one that stands in the open where it is compelled to
struggle for its existence against the winds and rains and the scorching sun.”
“The most important persuasion tool you have in your entire arsenal is integrity.”
“Vision without action is merely a dream. Action without vision just passes the
time. Vision with action can change the world.”
“If you don't change your beliefs, your life will be like this forever. Is that good news?”
“A leader is one who knows the way, goes the way, and shows the way.”
“He whom love touches not walks in darkness”
“When we do the best that we can, we never know what miracle is wrought in our life, or in the life of another.”
“Freedom requires a sacrifice the protected will never know!”
“Knowledge rests not upon truth alone, but upon error also.”
“To succeed we must endure mental and physical pain.”
“The annoyance you ignore today only gets worse tomorrow. Solve it now.”
“The practice of forgiveness is our most important contribution to the healing of the world.”
“Everything meaningful encounters resistance, don't get scared of whatever comes your way, just go with the right strategy and plan, their you'll overcome it at last.”
“Execute every act of thy life as though it were thy last.”
“Our necessities never equal our wants”
“If you have integrity, nothing else matters. If you don't have integrity, nothing else matters.”
“Decorate your home. It gives the illusion that your life is more interesting than it really is.”
“Peace comes from within. Do not seek it without.”
“Desire is the starting point of all achievement, not a hope, not a wish, but a keen pulsating desire which transcends everything.”
“Wake up each day and live your life like a maniac”
“Stepping stones to the top don't always go up”
“Most true happiness comes from one's inner life, from the disposition of the
mind and soul. Admittedly, a good inner life is hard to achieve, especially in these
trying times. It takes reflection and contemplation and selfdiscipline.”
“He's a real inspiration for the kids. Everybody felt a kinship with him. He's become the role model for my kids. He's a pioneer.”
“You have a unique gift to offer this world. Be true to yourself, be kind to yourself, read and learn about everything that interests you and keep away from people who bring you down. When you treat yourself kindly and respect the uniqueness of those around you, you will be giving this world an amazing gift... YOU!”
“A friend is one that knows you as you are, understands where you have been, accepts what you have become, and still, gently allows you to grow.”
“If you take responsibility for yourself you will develop a hunger to accomplish your dreams.”
“if it is whispered in the wind it is heard; if you listen to the wind you to shall hear”
“I don't want to live. I want to love first, and live incidentally.”
“Our greatest glory consists not in never falling, but in rising every time we fall”
“Friendship is a union of spirits, a marriage of hearts, and the bond there of virtue”
“A true friend knows your weaknesses but shows you your strengths; feels your fears but fortifies your faith; sees your anxieties but frees your spirit; recognizes your disabilities but emphasizes your possibilities.”
“One sees great things from the valley; only small things from the peak.”
“You can stand tall without standing on someone. You can be a victor without having victims.”
“Be a yardstick of quality. Some people aren't used to an environment where excellence is expected.”
“We change the world not by what we say or do, but as a consequence of what we have become.”
“In life you need either inspiration or desperation.”
“Be grateful for setbacks. They are opportunities for even more improvements.”
“Another of life's ironies seems to be that being apart brings us closer together.”
“Jazz is a music that translates the moment into a sense of inspiration for not only the musicians but for the listeners.”
“The way I see it, if you want the rainbow, you gotta put up with the rain.”
“the most moving experience of my life. It was an awe-inspiring moment.”
“Sacrificing your whole life for the sake of the 'outer world goals' is not the way to live.The one and only achievement that a man could do is working towards "ENLIGHTENMENT".”
“Live so that put downs and praise you receive are equally uplifting -- and are equally proof that you are meeting your life's purpose.”
“The state of your life is nothing more than a reflection of your state of mind.”
“A man should look for what is, and not for what he thinks should be.”
“Where there is no struggle, there is no strength.”
“Know where to find the information and how to use it - That's the secret of success”
“If you can't do great things, do small things in a great way. Don't wait for great
opportunities. Seize common, everyday ones and make them great.”
“Don't wait until everything is just right. It will never be perfect. There will always be challenges, obstacles and less than perfect conditions. So what. Get started now. With each step you take, you will grow stronger and stronger, more and more skilled, more and more self-confident and more and more successful.”
“When life knocks you down, try to land on your back. Because if you can look up, you can get up. Let your reason get you back up.”
“ANYONE CAN BE A GRACIOUS WINNER; BUT BEING GRACIOUS AFTER LOSING SHOWS STRENGTH OF CHARACTER.”
“Few are those whom this courage find.
They keep their eyes upon the goal,
and through this journey are made whole.
A test of will by grand design,
for fear lives only in the mind.”
“The face of a child will give us hope to live.”
“Be as little children, forgive, make up, and forget, quickly. So that we can enjoy each other's company”
“Valor consists in the power of self recovery.”
“Trust yourself. You know more than you think you do.”
“Little by little one walks far”
“Insults from imbeciles are compliments.”
“The way I see it, if you want the rainbow, you gotta put up with the rain. 
 
When I'm inspired, I get excited because I can't wait to see what I'll come up with next. 
 
Find out who you are and do it on purpose.
”
“If what you do gets people to cry, laugh or say 'wow'...you did good. If they do all three, you did great.”
“Live your life so that it would even inspire you.”
“The highest function of love is that it makes the loved one a unique and irreplacable being.”
“Seek goodness in others. Love more persons . . . more impersonally, more
unselfishly, without thought of return. The return, never fear, will take care of
itself.”
“You do it once, you can do it again.”
“Life is like a book; every step is already wirtten out on the pages, you just have to take it a chapter at a time.”
“Hold fast to dreams, For if dreams die, Life is a broken-winged bird that cannot fly, Hold fast to dreams, For if dreams go, Life is a barren field, Frozen with snow”
“If you have knowledge, let others light their candles with it.”
“Love must be learned, and learned again; there is no end to it.”
“False friendship, like the ivy, decays and ruins the walls it embraces; but true friendship gives new life and animation to the object it supports”
“During your life, never stop dreaming. No one can take away your dreams”
“The honorary duty of a human being is to love.”
“The thing about fighting your battles alone is that although you are usually outnumbered, you can always depend on your allies.”
“He who is not impatient is not in love”
“Don't tell me how hard you work. Tell me how much you get done.”
“Failure wants you to succeed, if only you will listen.”
“Embrace the negative, for within its crusty shell lies a pearl waiting to be discovered.”
“Breathe in the Universe. Exhale the Negativity. Inhale the Positivity. Release your Creativity ~ Nerissa irving”
“If you sleep on the game, the game will sleep on you.”
“to inspire, not offend.”
“The human mind is inspired enough when it comes to inventing horrors; it is when it tries to invent a Heaven that it shows itself cloddish”
“If you don't like something, change it. If you can't change it, change your
attitude. Don't complain.”
“Even a fool knows you can't touch the stars, but it won't keep the wise from trying.”
“Don't lose yourself... Its good to follow leaders, but its even better to become one...Become the Trend Setter.”
“Situations come to pass, they never come to stay. And when we allow them to
pass and disappear into the past like shadows, our vibrant spiritual selves remain,
powerful in the present moment. That is the constant, the unchanging, in an ever
changing world.”
“I'm so tired, but I can't sleep...standing on the edge of something much too deep...funny how I feel so much but cannot say a word...we are screaming inside, oh, but we can't be heard...so afraid to love you, more afraid to lose...clinging to a past”
“Some people come into our lives and quickly go.
Others stay for awhile and leave footprints on our hearts,
And we are never ever the same.”
“Imagination is everything. It is the preview of life's coming attractions.”
“You can write me down in history with hateful, twisted lies, you can tread me in this very dirt, but still, like dust, I'll rise”
“Abundance is not something we acquire. It is something we tune into.”
“Inspiring visions rarely (I'm tempted to say never) include numbers.”
“If you love somebody, let them go, for if they return, they were always yours. And if they don't, they never were...”
“Keep me away from the wisdom which does not cry, the philosophy which does not laugh and the greatness which does not bow before children.”
“It is not death that a man should fear, but he should fear never beginning to live.”
“It is not about living in the moment, but rather be thankful that we get these moments to live!”
“So dear I love him that with him all deaths I could endure, without him live no life.”
“When it comes to the future, there are three kinds of people: those who let it happen, those who make it happen, and those who wonder what happened.”
“Should we all confess our sins to one another we would all laugh at one another for our lack of originality”
“In every community, there is work to be done. In every nation, there are wounds to heal. In every heart, there is the power to do it.”
“Our greatest battles are that with our own minds.”
“Not until we are lost do we begin to understand ourselves.”
“How would your life be different if…You stopped allowing other people to dilute or poison your day with their words or opinions? Let today be the day…You stand strong in the truth of your beauty and journey through your day without attachment to the validation of others.”
“God, grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, the courage to change the things I can, and the wisdom to know the difference.”
“Life has a certain flavor for those who have fought and risked all that the sheltered and protected can never experience.”
“Smile- A good exercise for facial muscles and something that helps to face big challenges with ease.”
“"i don't need a crowd of friends that full of hyprocrite;i'd rather choose to be w/a few!,who'm i can really called"TRUE FRIENDS!"..”
“Live your beliefs and you can turn the world around.”
“There are Many things that I would Like to say to you But I Don't know How.”
“Educate, enlighten and inspire.”
“Preach the gospel to all the world, and if necessary, use words”
“When you can accept the mistakes you've made, the person you are today and the faults you have, than and only than you can live your life and be happy.”
“Failure wants you to succeed.”
“My mom, she's the general, ... She runs the team. She has always been my inspiration. She's a very, very strong woman. She's passive and laid back and calm, but at the same time she can get in your grill, on your case. I believe that every good parent evolves, that a parent keeps growing until it's time for their kids to be on their own. That's the way she was.”
“You can never be alone, there's always someone with you, yourself.”
“In teaching you cannot see the fruit of a day's work. It is invisible and remains so, maybe for twenty years.”
“There will always be enough time until there is no more time.”
“Love seeketh not itself to please, nor for itself hath any care, but for another gives its ease, and builds a Heaven in Hell's despair.”
“Don't spend your precious time asking "Why isn't the world a better place?" It will only be time wasted. The question to ask is "How can I make it better?" To that there is an answer.”
“Every day, think as you wake up, today I am fortunate to be alive, I have a
precious human life, I am not going to waste it. I am going to use all my energies
to develop myself, to expand my heart out to others; to achieve enlightenment for
the benefit of all beings. I am going to have kind thoughts towards others, I am
not going to get angry or think badly about others. I am going to benefit others as
much as I can.”
“When you examine the lives of the most influential people who have ever walked among us, you discover one thread that winds through them all. They have been aligned first with their spiritual nature and only then with their physical selves.”
“Carve a tunnel of hope through the dark mountain of disappointment.”
“Our doubts are traitors and make us lose the good we oft might win, by fearing to attempt”
“Trust in dreams, for in them is hidden the gate to eternity.”
“You know you are in love when you see the world in her eyes, and her eyes everywhere in the world.”
“Hope Is The Best Scope Of Life!”
“In libertinage, nothing is frightful, because everything libertinage suggests is also a natural inspiration; the most extraordinary, the most bizarre acts, those which most arrantly seem to conflict with every law, every human institution... even those that are not frightful, and there is not one amongst them all that cannot be demonstrated within the boundaries of nature.”
“The love of truth has its reward in heaven and even on earth.”
“It is the follow through that makes the great difference between ultimate success
and failure, because it is so easy to stop.”
“The glow of inspiration warms us; it is a holy rapture.”
“A proverb is no proverb to you until life has illustrated it”
“Modest men do not make history.”
“Show me the person you honor, for I know better by that the kind of person you are. For you show me what your idea of humanity is.”
“When on the field, never disrespect the game you love so much but always make a habit of disrespecting those who do”
“People label people when they are too scared to get to know them.”
“It takes courage to grow up and become who you really are.”
“When you say NO you miss so many things,
dare to say YES and experience moments in your life you will never forget.”
“There is real magic in enthusiasm. It spells the difference between mediocrity
and accomplishment.”
“If ever there is tomorrow when we're not together.. there is something you must always remember. you are braver than you believe, stronger than you seem, and smarter than you think. but the most important thing is, even if we're apart.. i'll always be with you.”
“You are the embodiment of the information you choose to accept and act upon. To change your circumstances you need to change your thinking and subsequent actions.”
“A writer is rarely so well inspired as when he talks about himself”
“Intuition is the golden thread that ignites the light of truth within doubt.”
“The inspiration of the almighty gives man understanding.”
“When you have cleared all of your clutter, you can be of greater service to those around you.”
“Effort only fully releases its reward after a person refuses to quit.”
“Real friendship is shown in times of trouble; prosperity is full of friends”
“We must never allow people to waste our time, it just doesn't make any sense.”
“Pain is just a four letter word describing the symptoms of victory”
“In any quest for expanded consciousness, spiritual or otherwise, belief starts here: Consider the tree.”
“Your tracks will always tell everyone where you came from and who were you back then. But what matters most is where you are right now and who you are today.”
“I believe only in one thing that I was born...”
“The quest for certainty blocks the search for meaning. Uncertainty is the very condition to impel man to unfold his powers.”
“When someone asks you what you did this weekend....let them know you gave a mother more time with her children, husband, family and friends”
“Age is an issue of mind over matter. If you don't mind, it doesn't matter.”
“If you do not conquer self, you will be conquered by self.”
“We are Warriors, Courage is our Sword, Life is our Battle, and difficulties is our enemies.To win this battle one must believe in himself.”
“Every day were saying, 'How can we keep this customer happy?' How can we get ahead in innovation by doing this, because if we don't, somebody else will.”
“Be generous! Give to those you love; give to those who love you; give to the
fortunate; give to the unfortunate yes, give especially to those you don't want to
give. You will receive abundance for your giving. The more you give, the more
you will have!”
“The secret to creativity is knowing how to hide your sources.”
“Don't look at the size of your mountain just start climbing, eventually you will make it to the top.”
“Care not for the negative comments of others as we are all judged in the end. I sleep knowing I acted on the side of righteousness, even through my wrath.”
“Where the world ceases to be the scene of our personal hopes and wishes, where we face it as free beings admiring, asking and observing, there we enter the realm of Art and Science”
“You must be the change you wish to see in the world.”
“While a rich man cannot have more than 1440 minutes a day, a clever man makes more time by using OPM or Other Peoples Minutes.-RVM”
“It's a funny thing about life; if you refuse to accept anything but the best, you very often get it.”
“I remember her as being a huge inspiration to me, someone to really look up to and admire.”
“Why do we love the sea? It is because it has some potent power to make us think things we like to think.”
“As we are liberated from our own fear, our presence automatically liberates others.”
“LET OUR LIGHTS BE BROKEN TO REINSTATE OUR DAYS OF GLORIOUS BOOM”
“The ability to discipline yourself to delay gratification in the short term in order
to enjoy greater rewards in the long term is the indispensable prerequisite for
success.”
“I live in the present. I only remember the past, and anticipate the future.”
“We don’t see things as they are, we see them as we are."
Anais Nin”
“I was so little inspired by violin instruction at the Guildhall School that I kept in the cloakroom a volume of concertos edited by Joachim, which I would retrieve before my lesson and read in class. And that would be my lesson for the day.”
“We are not permitted to choose the frame of our destiny. But what we put into it is ours.”
“If today was the day you were finally going to win, did you show up?”
“Don't live in the shadows of those whose interferences badly influences and deceives us
Live in the light of your own selfs truth and remain true to your own beliefs.”
“When inspiration does not come, I go for a walk, go to the movie, talk to a friend, let go... The muse is bound to return again, especially if I turn my back!”
“It isn't what you have, or who you are, or where you are, or what you are doing that makes you happy or unhappy. It is what you think about.”
“LET GO OF THE PAST! For the past is not holding on to you, you're the one holding on to it.”
“The hardest battle you're ever going to fight is the battle to be just you.”
“Life comes in many forms and leaves in many shapes, one of them being out of shape”
“Your greatest self has been waiting your whole life; don't make it wait any longer.”
“A difficult time can be more readily endured if we retain the conviction that our
existence holds a purpose a cause to pursue, a person to love, a goal to achieve.”
“So when you are listening to somebody, completely, attentively, then you are listening not only to the words, but also to the feeling of what is being conveyed, to the whole of it, not part of it.”
“The major reason for setting a goal is for what it makes of you to accomplish it. What it makes of you will always be the far greater value than what you get.”
“The hardest part of gaining any new idea is sweeping out the false idea
occupying that niche.”
“Formal education will make you a living; self-education will make you a fortune.”
“Learn to listen, then listen to learn”
“Stop doubting yourself! You were put on this earth to thrive. Don't you dare put a question-mark where God put a period!”
“When I was a child, my mother said to me, 'If you become a soldier, you'll be a general. If you become a monk you'll end up as the pope.' Instead I became a painter and wound up as Picasso.”
“A lie gets halfway around the world before the truth has a chance to get its pants on.”
“When you find peace within yourself, you become the kind of person who can live at peace with others.”
“If you are scared and hurt, hold out your hand. Come together as one, you will then understand. Your battle is immense and will be lost alone. We are Living The Dream, a family, a home. This invite is forever, don’t feel lost or adrift. We are one; our love is an everlasting gift.”
“The best remedy for those who are afraid, lonely or unhappy is to go outside, somewhere where they can be quiet, alone with the heavens, nature and God. Because only then does one feel that all is as it should be.”
“We come to love not by finding a perfect person, but by learning to see an imperfect person perfectly”
“When your Achievements Start to Glow Criticisms will start to flow, it’s a sign where you have reached beyond your social limitation”
“I do not think there is any other quality so essential to success of any kind as the quality of perseverance. It overcomes almost everything, even nature.”
“Doubt is a pain too lonely to know that faith is his twin brother.”
“Life is not meant to be easy, my child; but take courage -- it can be delightful.”
“A cookbook must have recipes, but it shouldn't be a blueprint. It should be more inspirational; it should be a guide.”
“The only limits to the possibilities in your life tomorrow are the buts you use today.”
“If we become increasingly humble about how little we know, we may be more eager to search.”
“Live out of your imagination instead of out of your memory.”
“Whats's going on in the inside shows on the outside.”
“If you do what you've always done, you'll get what you've always gotten.”
“He who has a why to live for can bear almost any how.”
“A teacher who is attempting to teach without inspiring the pupil with a desire to learn is hammering on a cold iron.”
“Patience and perseverance have a magical effect before which difficulties disappear and obstacles vanish.”
“Scientists have proven that it's impossible to long-jump 30 feet, but I don't listen to that kind of talk. Thoughts like that have a way of sinking into your feet.”
“Wake up each day and live your life like a maniac”
“In everyone's life, at some time, our inner fire goes out. It is then burst into flame by an encounter with another human being. We should all be thankful for those people who rekindle the inner spirit.”
“Truth is eternal.While Lies come with an expiration date.”
“Failure will never overtake me if my determination to succeed is strong enough.”
“Come as you are, leave as you please, with Christ in your heart, and God on your sleeve.”
“Nothing takes the taste out of peanut butter quite like unrequited love.”
“Only good choices are free,bad ones always come with a cost.”
“If you can think it, you can do it”
“Low selfesteem
is like driving through life with your hand break on.”
“When you change, the people around you will be inspired to change…But only after trying their hardest to make you stop.”
“Experience makes you educated and smarter while qualification just tags behind your name without experience.”
“Our attitudes control our lives. Attitudes are a secret power working 24 hours a
day, for good or bad. It is of paramount importance that we know how to harness
and control this great force.”
“If you would not be forgotton as soon as you are dead and rotten, Either write something worth reading or do something worth writing.”
“Friends are flowers that never fade”
“We all want freedom, but real freedom is possible only if we understand our true identity.”
“Bloomberg may not engage or inspire. But as CEO, he knows how to manage a situation and stay cool.”
“Wear the masks yet know underneath the mask is you and only you..That is life...”
“We do not yet trust the unknown power of thoughts”
“Your name is a large part of you, yourself.”
“Sometimes the subconscious mind manifests a wisdom several steps or even
years ahead of the conscious mind, and has its own way of leading us toward our
destiny.”
“You always do what you want to do. This is true with every act. You may say
that you had to do something, or that you were forced to, but actually, whatever
you do, you do by choice. Only you have the power to choose for yourself.”
“I like a teacher who gives you something to take home to think about besides homework.”
“How would your life be different if…You renamed your “To-Do” list to your “Opportunities” list? Let today be the day…You look at each day as a treasure chest filled with limitless opportunities and take joy in checking many off your list”
“There are men whom a happy disposition, a strong desire of glory and esteem, inspire with the same love for justice and virtue which men in general have for riches and honors....But the number of these men is so small that I only mention them in honor of humanity.”
“Continue searching for perfection and you will surely miss out on the best life has to offer.”
“I challenge you to make your life a masterpiece. I challenge you to join the ranks of those people who live what they teach, who walk their talk.”
“All characters come from people I know, but after the initial inspiration, I tend to modify the characters so they fit with the story.”
“Don't rely on someone else for your happiness and self worth. Only you can be responsible for that. If you can't love and respect yourself - no one else will be able to make that happen. Accept who you are - completely; the good and the bad - and make changes as YOU see fit - not because you think someone else wants you to be different.”
“How would your life be different if…You stopped worrying about things you can’t control and started focusing on the things you can? Let today be the day…You free yourself from fruitless worry, seize the day and take effective action on things you can change”
“When I look back on all these worries, I remember the story of the old man who said on his deathbed that he had had a lot of trouble in his life, most of which had never happened”
“We cannot all do great things, but we can do small things with great love.”
“It is understanding that gives us an ability to have peace. When we understand the other fellow's viewpoint, and he understands ours, then we can sit down and work out our differences.”
“If you want to conquer fear, don't sit home and think about it. Go out and get busy”
“How would your life be different if…You pretended those around you were deaf to your words? Let today be the day…You let your actions speak and communicate your feelings and intentions.”
“Only write what inspires you to write. If nothing inspires you write, anyhow. Something might come up.”
“Dreams are illustrations... from the book your soul is writing about you.”
“It's not how much we give but how much love we put into giving.”
“Your living is determined not so much by what life brings to you as by the attitude you bring to life; not so much by what happens to you as by the way your mind looks at what happens.”
“To be alive is a fine thing. It is the finest thing in the world, though hazardous. It is a unique thing. It happens only once in a lifetime. To be alive, to know consciously that you are alive, and to relish that knowledge - this is a kind of magic. Or it may be a kind of madness, exhilarating but harmless.”
“You may be able to convince me of your true lies, but you will never believe that your lies are truth.”
““Religious fanatics...you’re not welcomed here...life is simple...we live, we procreate,, we teach our kids to be good people,, we spread love,, take care of our temples, and we thank the creator for our blessings..Don't confuse me with the foolishness..The world would be a better place if we could really live that way”
“Change what you can change, let go of the rest.”
“Men shrink less from offending one who inspires love than one who inspires fear.”
“Kicking a lot of people out my circle today.. Fake negative people exit to left please. Don't forget to pick up your complimentary peanuts.”
“I was extremely moved by the plight of Tsunami victims and I was inspired to try to make a difference.”
“Every winner has scars.”
“Let everything you do be done as if it makes a difference.”
“"In the end, the most important thing is the love you've shared and the relationships which you've created along the way." ~Dina Harding”
“I would rather have a word of encouragement from a friend while i am here...than a whole truckload while i am gone.”
“The way to choose happiness is to follow what is right for you. Live your own
dreams. And you will know the meaning of happiness.”
“Love is not just about a feeling, it is a decision.”
“You have enemies? Good. That means you've stood up for something, sometime in your life.”
“The tragedy of life is not that it ends so soon, but that we wait so long to begin it.”
“The more good you do, the more good will come.”
“Heaven is where two or more people meet to talk love and peace. Hell is where two or more people meet to talk deceit and war.”
“Friendship is composed of a single soul inhabiting two bodies.”
“I think i lost my mind, but i found my thought.”
“First comes thought; then organization of that thought, into ideas and plans; then transformation of those plans into reality. The beginning, as you will observe, is in your imagination.”
“When everything seems to be going against you, remember that the airplane takes off against the wind, not with it.”
“He is useless on top of the ground; he ought to be under it, inspiring the cabbages”
“Friendship needs no words...”
“I don't know limits, that's why I'am infinite and even when im gone I will still remain Sun”
“Love does not consist of gazing at each other, but in looking together in the same direction”
“Self Love will get you far. Respect yourself”
“I make a movie because it's something that inspires me.”
“From such a gentle thing, from such a fountain of all delight, my every pain is born.”
“The minute I heard my first love story I started looking for you, not knowing how blind that was. Lovers don't finally meet somewhere. They're in each other all along.”
“As we explore the beauty within us, we discover the beauty around us.”
“You must learn from the mistakes of others. You can't possibly live long enough to make them all yourself.”
“You Can Shut Me Out...But You Can Not Shut Me Up! I Broke My Silence!”
“Success depends above all, upon people. Build relationships, teams, partnerships
and motivate people to contribute. Cultivate leadership, creativity, excellence.
Listen; seek new ideas and advice.”
“What we do in life, echoes in eternity!”
“A goal is created three times. First as a mental picture. Second, when written
down to add clarity and dimension. And third, when you take action towards its
achievement.”
“And in the end, the love we take will be equal to the love we make.”
“Nobody deserves your tears, but whoever deserves them will not make you cry.”
“Your husband or your wife should be someone that you can create with, work with, be friends with, make money with, and then spread all the money you made together on the bed and make love with and make it rain with.”
“Letting go becomes easier, when you see not what you lose, but all that you gain, in creating space for something new.”
“it's been up to me to inspire me.”
“Who writes poetry imbibes honey from the poisoned lips of life.”
“Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things you didn't do
than by the ones you did. So throw off the bowlines, sail away from the safe
harbor, catch the trade winds in your sails. Explore. Dream.”
“No one can cheat you out of ultimate success but yourself.”
“My best friend is the one who brings out the best in me.”
“Man, alone, has the power to transform his thoughts into physical reality; man, alone, can dream and make his dreams come true.”
“In 'Diary,' the motto really is: Where Do You Get Your Inspiration?”
“Love is blind, but friendship closes its eyes.”
“It's the heart afraid of breaking that never learns to dance. It is the dream afraid of waking that never takes the chance. It is the one who won't be taken who cannot seem to give. And the soul afraid of dying that never learns to live.”
“Neither genius, fame, nor love show the greatness of the soul. Only kindness can do that.”
“Trickery and treachery are the practices of fools that have not the wits enought to be honest”
“Love is blind; friendship closes its eyes.”
“Help us to be thankful for this day and every day and treat each one as a precious
gem to be filled to the full with meaning and with love.”
“Life is nothing without friendship.”
“There is new strength, repose of mind, and inspiration in fresh apparel”
“The dreams you see most clearly are most likely to come true.”
“Allowing an unimportant mistake to pass without comment is a wonderful social grace”
“'Star Wars' is fun, its exciting, its inspirational, and people respond to that. Its what they want.”
“A year from now you may wish you had started today.”
“First, to be able to love, then to learn that body and spirit are one”
“Whatever the mind of man can conceive and believe, he can achieve.”
“The marble not yet carved can hold the form of every thought the greatest artist has”
“[As for the group's political bite, there's no greater example than the recent single, B.Y.O.B ., inspired by a TV ad for the Army.] It glamorized going into the Army, ... It made it look like a party where everybody was going to have a good time.”
“But friendship is precious, not only in shade, but in the sunshine of life; and thanks to a benevolent arrangement of things, the greater part of life is sunshine”
“If we don't know life, how can we know death?”
“You are the only real obstacle in your path to a fulfilling life.”
“The only person you are destined to become is the person you decide to be.”
“All works are God's. He inspires, He helps, He executes, He enjoys, He is pleased, He reaps and He sowed.”
“You get ideas from daydreaming. You get ideas from being bored. You get ideas all the time. The only difference between writers and other people is we notice when we're doing it.”
“True love always makes a man better, no matter what woman inspires it”
“A great way to find J.O.Y.....Jesus, Others, Yourself : ) Remember what He did for you and all is well. Remember Jesus said, "in this world you will have troubles, but rejoice, because I have overcome the world"!!!”
“To save the world, you must first save yourself.”
“Even the wildest dreams have to start somewhere. Allow yourself the time and space to let your mind wander and your imagination fly.”
“Play with life, laugh with life, dance lightly with life, and smile at the riddles of life, knowing that life’s only true lessons are writ small in the margin.”
“Courage is the whisper in the moment of despair that says: "I must go on..."”
“One Of The Best Ways To Give Yourself Meaning In Life Is To Continue To Challenge Your Abilities”
“There are not enough days in forever to allow me to fully express the depth of my love for you.”
“Power is not something that we can bestow on another person. It is something he
or she already has within and will struggle to retain. Empowerment means that we
acknowledge the personal power each person has to make positive decisions and
to take responsibility for them, a simple exercise in treating others with dignity
and respect.”
“The more you praise and celebrate your life, the more there is in life to celebrate.”
“A mouse never entrusts his life to only one hole”
“What I've felt most inspired by is that, like Scripture, when you reach the end of the story, it's a new beginning.”
“Better to do something imperfectly than to do nothing perfectly -Robert H. Schuller”
“There are no secrets to success. It is the result of preparation, hard work, and learning from failure.”
“Let no one ever come to you without coming away better and happier.”
“That some achieve great success, is proof to all that others can achieve it as well.”
“I love inspiring people, and if I can make a difference in one person's life, then that's success for me!”
“True love always makes a man better, no matter what woman inspires it”
“While I take inspiration from the past, like most Americans, I live for the future.”
“You don't have to settle for the status quo, for being good enough, for getting by, for working all night.”
“Forgiveness with judgement is resistance of forgiveness.”
“At The Knot, our mission is to continuously develop inventive services to inspire and educate our loyal audience of engaged couples. We are thrilled to partner with a leader in luxury like Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts. This partnership will enable us to provide our brides with stylish inspirations and direct access to the professionals they need to achieve their dream weddings.”
“The more you buy into thoughts about your identity, the more you cut yourself off from who you really are.”
“Do not keep on with a mockery of friendship after the substance is gone - but part, while you can part friends. Bury the carcass of friendship: it is not worth embalming.”
“A baby is God's opinion that life should go on.”
“Life begins at forty”
“The important thing is not to stop questioning. Curiosity has its own reason for existing.”
“True friendship can afford true knowledge. It does not depend on darkness and ignorance.”
“The biggest adventure you can take is to live the life of your dreams.”
“There is something in every one of you that waits and listens for the sound of the genuine in yourself. It is the only true guide you will ever have. And if you cannot hear it, you will all of your life spend your days on the ends of strings that somebody else pulls.”
“No distance of place or lapse of time can lessen the friendship of those who are thoroughly persuaded of each other's worth.”
“Our life's journey of self-discovery is not a straight-line rise from one level of consciousness to another. Instead, it is a series of steep climbs and flat plateaus, then further climbs. Even though we all approach the journey from different directions, certain of the journey's characteristics are common to all of us.”
“It's better to do something with quality, no matter how long it takes you rather than do something mediocre, with constant quantity.”
“As a society, we have come to a point where people too often treat one another
as objects and opportunities, rather than as fellow human beings. Respecting one
another as individuals, or not doing so, seriously impacts the future for all of us.”
“Inspiration is an awakening, a quickening of all man's faculties, and it is manifested in all high artistic achievements.”
“But the one thing that has power completely is love, because when a man loves, he seeks no power, and therefore he has power.”
“Confidence on the outside begins by living with integrity on the inside.”
“If we do not find anything pleasant, at least we shall find something new”
“You cannot tailor-make the situations in life, but you can tailor-make the attitudes to fit those situations”
“Maintaining a complicated life is a great way to avoid changing it.”
“The longer I live, the more I realize the impact of attitude on life. Attitude, to me, is more important than facts. It is more important than the past, the education, the money, than circumstances, than failure, than successes, than what other people think or say or do. It is more important than appearance, giftedness or skill. It will make or break a company... a church... a home. The remarkable thing is we have a choice everyday regarding the attitude we will embrace for that day. We cannot change our past... we cannot change the fact that people will act in a certain way. We cannot change the inevitable. The only thing we can do is play on the one string we have, and that is our attitude. I am convinced that life is 10% what happens to me and 90% of how I react to it. And so it is with you... we are in charge of our Attitudes.”
“Those painful memories are what can help us make it to tomorrow, and become stronger. That goes for everyone. Every single human being has that power within them. Walk tall. And I, too, will forever walk tall, ever onwards. Never forget the memories we share”
“Most of the important things in the world have been accomplished by people who have kept on trying when there seemed to be no hope at all.”
“Only within the word love truth enters. Within emptiness you become pregnant with what you are searching for.”
“If you wish to travel far and fast, travel light. Take off all your envies, jealousies, unforgiveness, selfishness and fears.”
“Enthusiasm is the inspiration of everything great. Without it no man is to be feared, and with it none despised.”
“It's not the things that you accumulate in life that people will remember you by; it's the gifts you share with others that leave an everlasting impression.”
“I long to accomplish a great and noble task; but it is my chief duty to accomplish small tasks as if they were great and noble”
“Those who are lifting the world upward and onward are those who encourage more than criticize.”
“You are the master of your thoughts - make them count in a positive way.”
“There lies within all beings an awakening. It is the hunger of life that seeks the dawn.”
“Love the art in yourself, not yourself in the art”
“It is amazing what you can accomplish if you do not care who gets the credit.”
“Are you bored with life? Then throw yourself into some work you believe in with all your heart, live for it, die for it, and you will find happiness that you had thought could never be yours”
“No matter what yesterday unwrapped for you, today is a gift to better the present.”
“Accept the challenges so that you may feel the exhilaration of victory.”
“I love those who can smile in trouble, who can gather strength from distress, and grow brave by reflection.”
“Before you speak, think -Is it necessary? Is it true? Is it kind? Will it hurt anyone? Will it improve on the silence?”
“If the Bible is true, it needs no inspiration, and - if not true, inspiration can do it no good”
“[When his illness inspired him to sort through his possessions, to prepare for a fate he was hoping to fight off, Chironna found a photo of himself and Morrison that Weis had signed.] Thank you for your guidance, advice, teaching and friendship, ... Thank you for helping me to build character and become a better person. Without you, I would never have attained my goals. Hopefully, one day, I will be able to better show my gratitude.”
“Expose yourself to your deepest fear; after that, fear has no power, and the fear of freedom shrinks and vanishes. You are free.”
“Private victories precede public victories. You can't invert that process any more than you can harvest a crop before you plant it.”
“I do believe that when we face challenges in life that are far beyond our own power, it's an opportunity to build on our faith, inner strength, and courage. I've learned that how we face challenges plays a big role in the outcome of them.”
“Love yourself first and everything falls into line”
“Sometimes I've believed as many as six impossible things before breakfast.”
“We can't solve problems by using the same kind of thinking we used when we created them.”
“Remember that not getting what you want is sometimes a wonderful stroke of luck.”
“When I say, "I love you," it's not because I want you or because I can't have you. It has nothing to do with me. I love what you are, what you do, how you try. I've seen your kindness and your strength. I've seen the best and the worst of you. And I understand with perfect clarity exactly what you are. You're a hell of a woman.”
“'How do you know so much about everything?' was asked of a very wise and intelligent man; and the answer was 'By never being afraid or ashamed to ask questions as to anything of which I was ignorant”
“There are winners, there are losers and there are people who have not yet learned how to win.”
“I would rather learn from one bird how to sing than to teach 10,000 stars how not to dance.”
“You know that when I hate you, it is because I love you to a point of passion that unhinges my soul.”
“Though our feelings come and go, God’s love for us does not.”
“I used to settle for less…but knew I deserved more…so much life to discover…what was I waiting for…to create a new beginning…I have to let go…of any pain and heartache…that my heart holds…inside I have the courage…I’m stronger I know…in this place that I am…I allow myself to go…in order to move on…I have to leave behind the doubt…because that was my then…and this is my now…”
“A friendship can weather most things and thrive in thin soil; but it needs a little mulch of letters and phone calls and small, silly presents every so often - just to save it from drying out completely.”
“if you love living in mediocrity, killing your hopes and dreams (and sometimes urself) do it, but don't you dare to touch my wings.”
“Ridicule first, then shame and condescension are the weapons and ammunition - in the mental manipulation and psychological terrorism of the oppressed. Self-esteem, truth and fellowship among peers are their able defenses - in a counter-attack on the lies: of fear, inferiority and a mandatory deference - intended by the oppressors.”
“All our dreams can manifest in life not because we are white or black,but because we believe.”
“Speechless is not even a good enough word to describe what I feel when I see the pictures of how we have transformed the world from the good to bad, from natural to artificial, physical appearance to daily makeup. I think I want to go with the word ENRAGED, DISGUSTED, or better yet INSULTED .”
“Success is a state of mind. If you want success, start thinking of yourself as a success.”
“When you judge another, you do not define them, you define yourself.”
“Knowledge speaks, but wisdom listens.”
“There are such things as miracles...just take a look in the mirror and you'll see one.”
“If you wish to travel far and fast, travel light. Take off all your envies, jealousies, unforgiveness, selfishness and fears.”
“your attitude determines your altitude...”
“We must look for ways to be an active force in our own lives. We must take charge of our own destinies, design a life of substance and truly begin to live our dreams.”
“When you judge another, you do not define them, you define yourself.”
“Leadership is not magnetic personality/that can just as well be a glib tongue. It is not making friends and influencing people /that is flattery. Leadership is lifting a person's vision to higher sights, the raising of a person's performance to a higher standard, the building of a personality beyond its normal limitations.”
“Things don't go wrong and break your heart so you can become bitter and give up. They happen to break you down and build you up so you can be all that you were intended to be.”
“You have all the reason in the world to achieve your grandest dreams. Imagination plus innovation equals realization.”
“A smile is the light in your window that tells others that there is a caring, sharing person inside.”
“Sorry I had to let you go but I couldn’t hold on anymore. It kills me to let you go but its even worse to see that you don’t care at all about me. You mean everything to me but I guess to you, I'm just another friend. The more I hold on, the more I'm going to get hurt. Someday I'm going to look back and regret and I’m gonna wish I tried harder but the sad truth is, that in the end the one that gets hurt isn’t you, its me.”
“Never give in, never give in, never; never; never; never - in nothing, great or small, large or petty - never give in except to convictions of honor and good sense”
“Happiness is when what you think, what you say, and what you do are in harmony.”
“The winner's edge is not in a gifted birth, a high IQ, or in talent. The winner's edge is all in the attitude, not aptitude. Attitude is the criterion for success”
“All the principles of heaven and earth are living inside you. Life itself is truth, and this will never change. Everything in heaven and earth breathes. Breath is the thread that ties creation together.”
“A dream is your creative vision for your life in the future. You must break out of your current comfort zone and become comfortable with the unfamiliar and the unknown.”
“Being defeated is often a temporary condition. Giving up is what makes it permanent.”
“If you make friends with yourself you will never be alone.”
“Strange is our situation here upon earth. Each of us comes for a short visit, not
knowing why, yet sometimes seeming to divine a purpose. From the standpoint
of daily life, however, there is one thing we do know that man is here for the sake
of other men.”
“May that 'divine knowledgeable person'(almighty) inspire us! One, without whose inspiration one can never attain total knowledge.”
“I had rather do and not promise than promise and not do.”
“When we accept tough jobs as a challenge to our ability and wade into them with
joy and enthusiasm, miracles can happen.”
“Once you have a clear picture of your priorities that is values, goals, and high
leverage activities organize around them.”
“She's a big inspiration to me. She's a strong person, and she's a very strong gymnast.”
“Make no small plans for they have not the power to stir men’s blood.”
“A man is as great as the dreams he dreams, As great as the love he bears; As great
as the values he redeems, And the happiness he shares. A man is as great as the
thoughts he thinks, As the worth he has attained; As the fountains at which his
spirit drinks And the insight he has gained. A man is as great as the truth he
speaks, As great as the help he gives, As great as the destiny he seeks, As great as
the life he lives.”
“Coach Sutton said it was one of the most inspirational victories he'd ever experienced. He said we played OSU defense. He even said the victory helped out his aching back.”
“To judge individuals before understanding them is a form of human rejection and
feeds upon itself.”
“We either make ourselves miserable or we make ourselves strong. The amount of
effort is the same.”
“A man needs selfacceptance
or he can't live with himself; he needs selfcriticism
or others can't live with him.”
“The first week was extremely enjoyable, inspirational,”
“It's great to just play with Rod. He's an inspiration to everyone out here, especially guys like me who've struggled to stay in the league.”
“If you develop the absolute sense of certainty that powerful beliefs prove, then
you can get yourself to accomplish virtually anything, including those things that
other people are certain are impossible.”
“We create our own destiny with our choices and decisions. We can base these
decisions upon the awareness of our inner truth or we can base them on reactions
to outer circumstances. This power always belongs to us. No one can take it from
us.”
“Joey got us the jerseys. He's always got some inspiration for us.”
“We are not held back by the love we didn't receive in the past, but by the love we're not extending in the present.”
“Genuine security arises from actual, firsthand knowledge that one is both capable
and worthy of achieving happiness (through conscious, responsible action) and,
once having attained it, that he deserves it.”
“the chief inspiration for the soccer complex for which you are considering a name.”
“The Blues are the true facts of life expressed in words and song, inspiration, feeling, and understanding.”
“Enter every activity without giving mental recognition to the possibility of defeat. Concentrate on your strengths, instead of your weaknesses... on your powers, instead of your problems.”
“Wisdom is avoiding all thoughts that weaken you.”
“It's an aspect of life we don't get to see every day. Maybe we give some inspiration. But it's a lot of fun to see smiles on their faces. We're getting something out of it. It makes me want to work harder -- I feel gifted.”
“Everything we do is infused with the energy with which we do it. If we’re frantic,
life will be frantic. If we’re peaceful, life will be peaceful. And so our goal in
any situation becomes inner peace. Our internal state determines our experience
of our lives; our experiences do not determine our internal state.”
“When you lose sight of your morals, your standards, your true beliefs you lose the fire that drives people to break limits. There is so much we can all accomplish yet so many fail to do so because when its time to step up and face your dreams they cower and turn away and seconds later make excuses for doing so.We all know that life is challenging us to meet our fears that imprison our potential. Breaching that prison is the difference between the losers and the winners of this life and the next.”
“As you begin to live in the present moment, you will experience a subtle but
profound change. Worrying about the future will cease. A deep peace will enfold
you, a peace that says, "All is well". There is nothing to fear. Everything is
unfolding according to plan and you are being guided each step along the way.”
“This is an inspiring undertaking for America's chemical makers and for industries that use the products of chemistry, ... 'essential2' makes a powerful statement about how connected we all are and how central chemistry is to the health and growth of our nation. For example, the chemistry industry is America's leading exporter, accounting for 10 percent of all U.S. exports, and we generate more than half a trillion dollars for the U.S. economy each year.”
“There was a little adjustment in defense from Saturday's game. We were more inspired to win today. Whitney shot very well and Jackie had three huge 3-pointers and did well on defense.”
“She's just a tremendous inspiration for me as a coach and I use her as well as many other former players here to inspire my team. I say whatever you want to do, you can do it.”
“I find television very educational. Every time someone switches it on I go into another room and read a good book.”
“Decide on what you think is right, and stick to it.”
“He was inspired by it and wondered why we didn't have anything like it in the States.”
“I am always doing that which I cannot do, in order that I may learn how to do it.”
“Originality and the feeling of one's own dignity are achieved only through work
and struggle.”
“Don't judge each day by the harvest you reap, but by the seeds you plant.”
“He's such an inspiration to all of us. Very positive, great character to be around and learn from him.”
“A man is rich in proportion to the number of things he can afford to let alone.”
“Mankind must evolve for all human conflict a method which rejects revenge, aggression, and retaliation. The foundation of such a method is love.”
“Let us become the change we seek in this world.”
“They say don't look down in life. That's just not reality. Sometimes you have to look straight into the abyss where danger, pain, and frustration seem likely to crush your dreams. You must continue forward. This is the moment where you choose your destiny.”
“My inspiration came from the land, ... and, of course, from Paul Klee . . . and the poetics of his paintings.”
“inspired to do the best they can and be as independent as possible.”
“I know that I will be looking up to the heavens for inspiration,”
“We are both trying to find our own inspiration and movement. My inspiration is sign language.”
“The easiest success measurement tool is a simple question. What did you do
today to move forward? The easiest project plan on earth is also a simple
question. What will you do tomorrow to move forward? At the end of each day,
document your success and design your next move.”
“All things are difficult before they are easy.”
“Freedom is actually a bigger game than power. Power is about what you can
control. Freedom is about what you can unleash.”
“The only limits to the possibilities in your life tomorrow are your "buts" you use
today.”
“Opportunity dances with those who are already on the dance floor.”
“Time ripens all things; no man is born wise.”
“He was one of the people who inspired me to continue on to college.”
“Courage is not measured in strength of arms, but in strength of mind and love of heart.”
“Courage is standing up for something good that you dont belive in, bravery is standing down from what you believed.”
“You. too, can determine what you want. You can decide on your major objectives, targets, aims, and destination.”
“Look at frustration as a positive thing. It is the frustration that drives you to
improve.”
“Man must cease attributing his problems to his environment and learn to exercise
his will his personal responsibility.”
“Kindness is something that we must own and extend to ourselves, before we are
able to extend it to others. When we do this, we do not determine whether
someone deserves our kindness anymore than we determine whether someone
deserves to be spoken to in their own language. It is simply something we do
because it has become our nature to be kind.”
“Man maintains his balance, poise, and sense of security only as he is moving forward.”
“A sovereign's great example forms a people; the public breast is noble or vile as he inspires it.”
“The market saw through the Fed's inspiring comments about the economic recovery because it moved to an easing bias. We also had some poor earnings news from U.S. tech and media names after Wall Street closed.”
“He was able to overcome everything. He's an inspiration to me and to others.”
“Entrepreneurship is a state of mind, a cando attitude, a capacity to focus on a
vision and work toward it.”
“IF YOU CAN DO don't not.”
“There are no extra pieces in the universe. Everyone is here because he or she has a place to fill, and every piece must fit itself into the big jigsaw puzzle.”
“Some defeats are only installments to victory.”
“There have been so many times in my life when things that looked like disasters
were really incredible GIFTS that served as pivotal turning points. I am truly
thankful for perserving through all of my "mistakes".”
“There are two ways of exerting one's strength: one is pushing down, the other is pulling up.”
“We need to draw inspiration from those who came before us. And though it may be difficult to recreate stage acting and the styles of other actors, we can get to know them and to get to know about this history of stage acting in this country.”
“The gratification of wealth is not found in mere possession or in lavish expenditure, but in its wise application.”
“I am not discouraged, because every wrong attempt discarded is another step forward.”
“If a violent act towards a woman takes place, and the inspiration for that act is violence in cinema, the inspiration for that act would have come from somewhere else if movies didn't exist.”
“All people want and have the right to be treated with Dignity and Respect, No
Exceptions. The only way we can do this is by separating people from their
behavior. Behavior is not always worthy of respect, but the person always is.”
“It's never too late - in fiction or in life to revise”
“Our self image, strongly held, essentially determines what we become”
“I treasure each opportunity that I get to dance with Karen. She is such an inspiration to me and an incredible artist.”
“There's [little] time on the clock, and we've got Tom Brady and Adam Vinatieri. That inspires a lot of confidence.”
“Out of clutter, find simplicity.”
“Figure out what your most magnificent qualities are and make them indispensable
to the people you want to work with. Notice that I didn't say "work force.””
“If you wish to know the road up the mountain, ask the man who goes back and
forth on it.”
“The life of a high achiever is one of risk and reward, one of sowing and reeping,
and/or one of straining and growing. Nothing great will happen unless you first
take a risk, sow the right seed, and/or strain through resistance. Get started and
make your dreams come true.”
“Forgiving those who hurt us is the key to personal peace.”
“Courage means to keep working a relationship, to continue seeking solutions to difficult problems, and to stay focused during stressful periods.”
“I really didn't have any particular inspiration ? a little (Dick) Cheney and Al Gore in there somewhere. And there's probably a little bit of Lyndon Johnson, too ? a combination of all vice presidents that I've known. And a little bit of what Ray Wise thinks about how to play the vice president. But I'm waiting to play the president in the big time.”
“Do the hard jobs first. The easy jobs will take care of themselves.”
“A keen sense of humor helps us to overlook the unbecoming, understand the
unconventional, tolerate the unpleasant, overcome the unexpected and outlast the
unbearable.”
“Consumers want something more inspiring these days.”
“You must have courage to bet on your ideals, to take calculated risk, and act..
Everyday living requires courage if life is to be effective and bring happiness.”
“Often the most loving thing we can do when a friend is in pain is to share the pain
to be there even when we have nothing to offer except our presence and even
when being there is painful to ourselves.”
“If you let your fear of consequence prevent you from following your deepest instinct, your life will be safe, expedient and thin.”
“For them to give back is truly inspiring.”
“Nice Dreads: Hair Care Basics and Inspiration for Colored Girls Who've Considered Locking Their Hair”
“Their example is an inspiration to all who share the universal values of freedom, democracy and the rule of law, ... This is a document of which the Iraqis and the rest of the world can be proud.”
“Adversity is the trial of principle. Without it a man hardly knows whether he is honest or not.”
“Wisdom is knowledge which has become a part of one's being.”
“I played a lot of good games, but that was the best one. It was the most inspirational one, because we didn't want to lose.”
“All of us need to grow continuously in our lives.”
“Contact with a high-minded woman is good for the life of any man”
“This is where the idea of the movie originated, this is where the inspiration came from and this was the right place for the premiere.”
“Today is a difficult day for the company, ... We cannot help but recognize Steve's vision, inspiration and energy, which have done so much to build this dynamic and successful company.”
“I want to remind you that success in life is based on hard slogging. There will be
periods when discouragement is great and upsetting, and the antidote for this is
calmness and fortitude and a modest yet firm belief in your competence. Be sure
that your priorities are in order so that you can proceed in a logical manner, and
be ever mindful that nothing will take the place of persistence.”
“All achievements, all earned riches, have their beginning in an idea.”
“It captures a unique sense of wisdom and leadership and draws an inspiration that lifts the spirit.”
“One of the annoying things about believing in free will and individual responsibility is the difficulty of finding somebody to blame your problems on. And when you do find somebody, it's remarkable how often his picture turns up on your driver's license.”
“Keep away from small people who try to belittle your ambitions. Small people
always do that, but the really great make you feel that you, too, can become
great.”
“Often the difference between a successful man and a failure is not one's better abilities or ideas, but the courage that one has to bet on his ideas, to take a calculated risk, and to act.”
“It's as inspiring as always, it's brilliant.”
“I believe religion is an extraordinarily powerful force that has inspired the noblest best and the worst. But now we're in a world where we have many different ways that a small number of people can wreak havoc. The danger has escalated to a totally different level.”
“Making the simple complicated is commonplace; making the complicated
simple,awesomely simple, that's creative.”
“The road to happiness lies in two simple principles: find what it is that interests
you and that you can do well and when you find it, put your whole soul into
it....every bit of energy, ambition and natural ability you have.”
“Every really new idea looks crazy at first.”
“I love milk so much! I make a point of drinking a glass of milk every day. So now anyone who did those milk ads with the milk moustaches, they're my heroes.”
“Abundance is about being rich with or without money.”
“Once you are "real" you can't become unreal again. It lasts for always.”
“What we love we shall grow to resemble."
Bernard of Clairvaux”
“Determination gives you the resolve to keep going in spite of the roadblocks that lay before you.”
“It's very sweet to mention the word sequel, ... Obviously that's the way my brain works. It continues to tell stories. So it's inevitable for me that I do that, and of course I love this universe. I love these people, and I would jump at the chance to do it again.”
“Emptiness is a symptom that you are not living creatively. You either have no
goal that is important enough to you, or you are not using your talents and efforts
in a striving toward an important goal.”
“In every person who comes near you look for what is good and strong; honor that; try to imitate it, and your faults will drop off like dead leaves when their time comes.”
“Life is a gift and all of us who have the capacity must remember that we have the
responsibility to give something back; a small but consistent commitment of time
and caring can make a measurable difference in the world.”
“There is no man living that can not do more than he thinks he can”
“I (draw) a lot of inspiration from the romance and glamour of that period for my gowns especially.”
“John was an inspiration for me so I wanted to take the number, ... I owe a lot to him.”
“Dotty is youthful! Always smiling and energetic! She is admirable and my inspiration!”
“AS WE GROW OLD THE VALUE OF OUR POSSESSIONS DEPRECIATES AND THE VALUE OF OUR HEALTH APPRECIATES !”
“THE SIXTH SENSE IS THE COMMON-SENSE !”
“It’s not what you are that holds you back, it’s what you think you are not.”
“We actually halted the recording process to go to the funeral, and we took a couple days off of the recording process to hold a benefit show for the family. Dime was a huge inspiration to Danny (guitarist Dan Donegan) and all of us, really. He was our friend. We dedicated the record to his memory.”
“It's early '50s. I've drawn inspiration from fashion icons of that era, whose sense of style and elegance have sort of influenced style today.”
“To be a great leader... remember, when placed in command TAKE CHARGE!”
“The two qualities which chiefly inspire regard and affection [Are] that a thing is your own and that it is your only one.”
“We keep our chops up and inspire each other. That is the best way to keep it up, by playing with people.”
“They have definitely provided some leadership and inspiration. They both have positive attitudes that add to the team chemistry.”
“Justice is God's control over the order of the universe.
Mercy is God's power even over the order of the universe.”
“The more you recognize and express gratitude for the things you have, the more
you will have to express gratitude for.”
“I think there's something very elegant about the way that Christophe is directing horror. And, his inspiration is, you know, coming from a very highbrow kind of level in art. So If you're into horror I would say this is the movie to watch because it's elegant horror.”
“Any good that you can do, do it now. Do not delay it or forestall it, for you will
not pass this way again.”
“A certain amount of opposition is a great help to a man. Kites rise against, not with, the wind.”
“The greatest healing therapy is friendship and love.”
“We're having time to give the younger generation today inspiration. Regardless of the obstacles that you have to overcome, how you can make it?”
“I was happy I wasn't left on the balcony waiting for Zorro to come home, ... I was inspired by the fact that I wasn't standing behind Zorro but rather standing right next to him.”
“The mind is the limit. As long as the mind can envision the fact that you can do
something, you can do it, as long as you really believe a 100 percent.”
“Each friend represents a world in us, a world possibly not born until they arrive
and it is only by this meeting that this new world is born.”
“My brother is a very inspirational person,”
“I would like to spend the whole of my life traveling, if I could anywhere borrow another life to spend at home”
“No life can be compared to another Life unless both refer to Death! Even if a Life is different from another Life, it exists, as Life, only by referring to Death, because all other Lives it would refer to finally lead to the last referent which is a Life having as reference: Death! This is why I said the all the shine of Life consists of Death, as the shine of Death consists of Life.”
“Inspiration just pops into my head. A lot of times, late at night I'll dream about something. Or I'll wake up at 2 or 3 in the morning and start writing.”
“It was fans inspired to express their excitement in a song about this year's team, and we thought it was a pretty good effort. It was a pretty cool song.”
“We cannot imagine Life without Death, because the entire Life rests on Death, otherwise it wouldn’t exist.”
“Where do we people go if not towards the perfection of our own illusion?”
“His ability was an inspiration to everyone who loves football.”
“Living a life that in fact lives them, as well as death dies them every moment since the triumphal birth in order to die.”
“Nothing is ever lost by courtesy. It is the cheapest of pleasures, costs nothing,
and conveys much.”
“Could we talk about a world without opposites? We certainly can’t, just as well as we couldn’t talk about a world without paradoxes, precisely because we are all of this. If we were not a paradox, than our world either wouldn’t be paradoxical.”
“I have a special place for Ray Brown's playing because his approach to the instrument was the thing that inspired me initially. I feel that that is at the bottom of my playing and that that is the fundamental influence that I have on my playing. He kind of holds a special place for me.”
“Actually, I feel music becoming more and more important. It's a big source of inspiration. With what's going on in the world, we feel almost desperate. Music also brings you peace.”
“If I waited for inspiration every time I sat down to write a song I probably would be a plumber today.”
“Man’s life is knowledge and that’s all. If the Man didn’t knew life he didn’t exist.”
“Lucky people are simply those who think continually about what they want and
then attact it into their lives.”
“Does wisdom perhaps appear on the earth as a raven which is inspired by the smell of carrion?”
“It quite often happens that the old man is subject to the delusion of a great moral renewal and rebirth, and from this experience he passes judgments on the work and course of his life, as if he had only now become clear-sighted; and yet the inspiration behind this feeling of well-being and these confident judgements is not wisdom, but weariness .”
“The key to finding beauty is to know where to look.”
“It is impossible to put into words the quiet strength and incredible courage Dana Reeve demonstrated in the way she lived her life. With Chris, she gave voice to a movement to find life-saving cures and promote medical research, and when she lost her inspiration and love she didn’t stop the fight. Only days after Chris’ death she continued to give hope to millions of Americans. She was an inspiration to me and to us all. Chris was America’s superhero, and Dana became our hero, too.”
“It's just amazing. It's inspirational to the kids and to me. We all need that support here.”
“The past is the past, the history is history, if you've got the determination, why don't you use it to do better instead of feeling guilty for the past?”
“Continuous excellent effort, not maximum strength or superior IQ, is the key to
unlocking your potential as an achiever.”
“Remember to be gentle with yourself and others. We are all children of chance and none can say why some fields will blossom while others lay brown beneath the August sun. Care for those around you. Look past your differences. Their dreams are no less than yours, their choices no more easily made. And give, give in any way you can, of whatever you posses. To give is to love. To withhold is to wither. Care less for your harvest than for how it is shared and your life will have meaning and your heart will have peace.”
“You are where you are today because you’ve chosen to be there.”
“Nothing limits achievement like small thinking; nothing expands possibilities like unleashed imagination.”
“He never gave up. He kept on going. It's inspiring.”
“He plays very hard all the time. Sometimes, a play he makes will inspire the whole team.”
“I am delighted that Dominica has achieved Benchmarked status. Dominica is an inspiration to all those people committed to environmentally sustainable tourism. They have demonstrated through a variety of initiatives that they can make a difference to reducing their environmental impact. The commitment they have shown by participating in the Green Globe program and by their achievements sets an example for others to follow.”
“I don't know if they provide inspiration,”
“Whatever fortune brings, don't be afraid of doing things.”
“It's been a strong source of inspiration for the divers. We usually dive in zero visibility and very bad conditions. We know if the family who suffered that loss is able to rise above that to help us help people better, it gives us a better way to focus on what we need to do to help more people.”
“The movie really hit home. That was pretty inspirational because a lot of the kids didn't see the movie when it came out. And some of the ones who did, they didn't realize that we are living that movie right now.”
“Understanding is a wellspring of life unto him that hath it: but the instruction of fools is folly (Proverbs 16:22).”
“I really appreciate people like Rosie coming out and saying I've inspired them.”
“She's a great leader, and her work ethic has been a great inspiration to all of our athletes. She's focused and has her goals set, and we're very fortunate to have her.”
“For a just man falleth seven times, and riseth up again... Proverbs 24:16”
“Success is more a function of consistent common sense than it is of genius.”
“We encourage customers to get inspired.”
“It is difficult to make a man miserable while he feels worthy of himself and claims kindred to the great God who made him”
“Your true beliefs and values are only and always expressed in your actions,
especially what you do under pressure.”
“Towering genius disdains a beaten path.”
“The whole country has been behind the team and I am sure it's been an inspiration to Michael Vaughan and his players. Everyone's fallen in love with cricket.”
“The Office of War Information asked Parks to provide inspirational photos to support the war effort. This photo is about ennobling labor.”
“Erika is a huge role model for me and an inspiration. I'm growing into myself and a much stronger gymnast and maybe one day, people will aspire to be like me.”
“Louise has demonstrated exceptional courage, determination, inspiration and dedication, embodying the woman we were looking for when we came up with the idea for this contest. We are humbled and excited in equal measure to be able to bring recognition to someone who has selflessly given so much to so many.”
““Kindness is the language which the deaf can hear and the blind can see.”
“Know how to listen, and you will profit even from those who talk badly.”
“Gustav is a true master of the traditional repertoire; it's a real inspiration to work with someone who knows the repertoire with such intimacy. He's such a skilled communicator, and his conducting technique is unparalleled.”
“Think like a man of action, and act like a man of thought.”
“When you give up on life, never give up on yourself, because there is so much for you to keep on giving!”
“Project Runway is a wonderful inspiration for aspiring fashion designers and the third season is sure to be filled with as much edge and excitement as the first two.”
“So, it's nice to know that you've inspired someone to do their life's work.”
“Beauty is but the sensible image of the Infinite. Like truth and justice it lives within us; like virtue and the moral law it is a companion of the soul.”
“Enrich the soil that will produce your harvest by speaking words of prosperity over your life.”
“Superior people take both the credit and the blame for everything that happens to
them.”
“Acting is just a way of making a living, the family is life”
“Are you going to choose to commit to your dream or are you going to allow society to determine who and what you will be for the rest of your life?”
“The most damaging phrase in the language is, "It's always been done that way".”
“One strength of the communist system of the East is that it has some of the character of a religion and inspires the emotions of a religion.”
“I just do whatever it is that I believe I should do, regardless of the risks to my life.”
“Death where is thy sting? Love, where is thy glory?”
“View any and all obstacles as lessons, not indications of failure. Keep in mind that
you are practicing patience and detachment from outcome. When anything
appears to be an obstacle, do not use that material fact to deny the existence of the
universal energy that is your essence. Everything that shows up in your life is
supposed to; this includes the falls in your life, which provide you with the energy
to propel yourself to a higher state of awareness.”
“Taking bold, focused action creates explosive results.”
“Your past is not your potential. In any hour you can choose to liberate the future.”
“Your pledge to achieve your dreams is the foundation of your ability to do it.”
“Giving opens the way to receiving.”
“What he had not learned, however, was this: to find contentment in himself and his own life”
“We cannot escape fear. We can only transform it into a companion that
accompanies us on all our exciting adventures. Take a risk a day one small or bold
stroke that will make you feel great once you have done it.”
“You are a seed of greatness that God has planted in this world.”
“There is only one journey. Going inside yourself.”
“How we spend our days is, of course, how we spend our lives.”
“Don't let what you can't control end up controlling you.”
“A great person is guided by their integrity.”
“Whatever people do, they do for a reason and they think that it meets their
needs....by THEIR perception.”
“Peace of mind is the highest human good and it is your normal, natural condition.
As yourself, Do you want to be right, or do you want to be happy?”
“Vision is the art of seeing the invisible.”
“The sadness of the women's movement is that they don't allow the necessity of love. See, I don't personally trust any revolution where love is not allowed.”
“Celebrate any progress. Don't wait to get perfect.”
“a guiding star is implemented by the mind so you will find precious jewels in time if you explore your own mind deplore doubt and find your destination when your own star shines”
“I love the printed word and have always appreciated the unique connection between author and reader. This magazine provides a different way for people to be informed and inspired.”
“Doing what you love is the cornerstone of having abundance in your life.”
“Though you are no longer here, your spirit will always be alive in me.”
“Stress is frustrates you and plants the seed of doubt in your mind. Defeat it by resting and repairing your mind and body.”
“For God to use your painful experiences, you must be willing to share them.”
“Your future depends on many things, but mostly on you.”
“Friendship at first sight, like love at first sight is said to be the only truth”
“Believe in yourself. If you don’t, then no one else will have a reason to.”
“never take dreams for granted they are planted there as seeds to soil you will foil the future if you do not act upon it honesty and dedication will enable guaranteed success a celebration of words latent with a subtle message which enables convalescence to those sick be true to your essence”
“I know I can sustain any storm in my life, because I have seen the forecast and prepared for the weather ahead of me.”
“Nothing will change until you step out in faith and take uncomfortable, challenging action.”
“Breathe to clear the mind and body too of impulsiveness.”
“A champion decision is based upon irrefutable belief in yourself and your dream.”
“Victory does not exist without conflict, competition and challenges.”
“Spiritual beings do not allow their thoughts and feelings to flow from their
actions, they understand that their thoughts create their physical world.”
“Do the next thing.”
“Power moves with you when you have an intent to serve more than yourself.”
“Champion eagles soar high above the clouds while pigeons waddle around seemingly confused about their mere existence.”
“Miracles happen every day. They bubble up from their hidden source, surround us
with opportunities and disappear.”
“The only things in your control are your thoughts and then your actions. Positive,
powerful thoughts lead to positive, powerful actions, and when done with
repeated consistency this cycle leads to greatness. Dream it! Pray for it! Believe
it! Work for it! And then be ready when it happens!”
“There is more to life than increasing its speed.”
“I'm Not Cocky, I'm Confident. So When You Tell Me I'm The Best I Take It As A Compliment.”
“Once you become detached from "things", they don't own you any longer.”
“To be wronged is nothing unless you continue to remember it.”
“Decisiveness is a common characteristic of all successful men and women.”
“Leadership determines the direction of the company. Organization determines the
potential of the company. Personnel determines the success of the company.”
“Seek out that particular mental attribute which makes you feel most deeply and
vitally alive, along with which comes the inner voice which says, "This is the real
me," and then you have found that attitude, follow it.”
“Each cent you apply toward diminishing your debt replenishes you.”
“To be nobody but yourself in a world which is doing its best, night and day, to
make you somebody else means to fight the hardest battle which any human
being can fight; and never stop fighting.”
“In every moment, we teach either love or fear. As we demonstrate love towards
others....we learn how to love more deeply.”
“You are surrounded by a universal mind that contains all the intelligence, ideas
and knowledge that have ever existed.”
“Men may doubt what you say, but they will believe what you do.”
“What happens in your mind, happens in time.”
“Your comfort zone is nice and cozy, but is it so great that you want to remain there forever?”
“Don't undermine your worth by comparing yourself with others. It is because we
are different that each of us is special.”
“Don’t be offended by rejection. Instead, let it strengthen your belief that God has better things in store for your dream.”
“Courage is not measured in strength of arms, but in strength of mind and love of heart.”
“Your ability to live your dream is not based on your physical capabilities. It’s determined by the belief and faith inside of your heart.”
“A tired mind equals tired results. You must rest your mind and your spirit to achieve greatness.”
“Physical exercise not only changes the appearance of your body, it also clears your mind and releases frustration that causes you to make unwise decisions that produce an unwanted outcome.”
“He that cannot forgive others breaks the bridge over which he must pass himself; for every man has need to be forgiven.”
“Without commitment, you are like a dog chasing his tail.”
“Creative ideas reside in people’s minds but are trapped by fear or rejection.
Create a judgment free environment and you’ll unleash a torrent of creativity.”
“If you do not feel yourself growing in your work and your life broadening and deepening, if your task is not a perpetual tonic to you, you have not found your place.”
“Children's talent to endure stems from their ignorance of alternatives.”
“I wake at dawn with a winged heart and give thanks for another day of loving.”
“Start living now. Stop saving the good china for that special occasion. Stop withholding your love until that special person materializes. Every day you are alive is a special occasion. Every minute, every breath, is a gift from God.”
“Love is not a victory march, its a cold and its a broken hallelujah”
“Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma - which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don't let the noise of other's opinions drown out your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary.”
“There's no such thing as Perfection. But, in striving for perfection, we can
achieve excellence”
“I am tomorrow, or some future day, what I establish today. I am today what I established yesterday or some previous day.”
“The torpid artist seeks inspiration at any cost, by virtue or by vice, by friend or by fiend, by prayer or by wine.”
“Trust yourself. Have confidence that you can draw the best, not the worst, to
yourself.”
“the only time you can make sence and notmake sense is when your with sasha”
“Expect a miracle!”
“I had this extraordinary world I helped create, with this cast I felt were the most extraordinary people I'd worked with, who were born to play these parts,”
“The idea behind the show, ... was to take nine people and say, 'Nine people look out into the blackness of space, and see nine different things.' But science fiction opens you up to every element of history that you want, because the future is just the past in a blender. So I could take anything from the human experience I've read about or felt or seen. Like, what is it like after a war? It doesn't matter which war or which country - what is it like for the people who lost?”
“When life gives you lemons! Make a fruit salad!”
“Life is better when you know where you are going, happier when you know who is going with you, and more exciting the closer you get to your destination!”
“Everybody has a story to tell, its just dat it may be more easier or harder compared to the other.”
“In knowing how to overcome little things, a centimeter at a time, gradually when
bigger things come, you're prepared.”
“Faith allows me to believe in what I dream.”
“"Why to keep a lot expectations for temporary lyf"... ♥ ♥”
“A gift of praise, recognition, gratitude, appreciation, and love is treasured forever.”
“I hope that I have achieved what I set out to do and that is to make your days more memorable, a little more bareable, lighten your troubles, and fill your heart with love.”
“Breakdown the walls that are keeping your mind captive”
“Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live forever.”
“When you are kind to someone, you hope they'll remember and be kind to
someone else and it will become like wildfire.”
“No institution can possibly survive if it needs geniuses or supermen to manage it. It must be organized in such a way as to be able to get along under a leadership composed of average human beings.”
“the eyes are the window of the heart, and the heart is the house for the soul”
“The truest help we can render an afflicted man is not to take his burden from him, but to call out his best energy, that he may be able to bear the burden”
“Perhaps the most comforting thought is not knowing what is true, but knowing that every question in the universe inevitably has truth.”
“We cannot do great things on this Earth, only small things with great love.”
“If you’re climbing the ladder of life, you go rung by rung, one step at a
time.sometimes you don’t think you’re progressing until you step back and see
how high you’ve really gone.”
“There is always room at the top.”
“First you should be happy and then can infect all people, you can create best value only in the case of happiness!”
“I believe that one of the characteristics of the human race, possibly the one that is
primarily responsible for its course of evolution, is that it has grown by creatively
responding to failure.”
“What Women Want: To be loved, to be listened to, to be desired, to be respected, to be needed, to be trusted, and sometimes, just to be held. What Men Want: Tickets for the world series.”
“Whatever you are doing, love yourself for doing it. Whatever you are feeling, love yourself for feeling it.”
“Little men with little minds and little imaginations go through life in little ruts, smugly resisting all changes which would jar their little worlds”
“Don't stretch your luck too far, you never know when you may run out of it.”
“Honor is the reward to those who answer the call to serve.”
“Always remember that you are bigger than the moment, you are more than
anything that could ever happen to you.”
“"Rotten women cannot bear gracious fruit" ~Lady Progressive”
“One way we can know that we are aligned with the life force that is God is that
we feel more and more alive. Notice what gives you aliveness and what
diminishes you, deadens and numbs you so that you only skim the surface of life.
Begin to say YES to what quickens and energizes, to that which brings joy and
gratitude.”
“On a long enough timeline, the survival rate for everyone drops to zero!”
“When was the last time you took a walk with the Universe?”
“You don't change for other people, you change YOUrself first.”
“I dream my painting and then paint my dream.”
“Is there any doubt that the people you expect to frustrate you never fail to live up to that expectation?”
“Day dreaming is like oxygen for your mind. If you can’t day dream, you’re slowly suffocating.”
“Love is the strange bewilderment that overtakes one person on account of another person.”
“You only lose energy when life becomes dull in your mind. Your mind gets
bored and therefore tired of doing nothing. Get interested in something! Get
absolutely enthralled with something! Get out of yourself! Be somebody! Do
something! The more you lose yourself in something bigger than yourself, the
more energy you will have.”
“I love you smile at me, I love the way your hands reach out and hold me near....I believe this is heaven to no one else but me.”
“When in doubt, be yourself.”
“Did my heart love till now? Forswear it, sight, For I never saw true beauty till this night”
“Experience is the greatest teacher of all”
“Keep the wisdom of God In your heart”
“Blessings fall on ground that's been plowed in praise”
“We can make endless excuses for why we can't do something, but we only need one reason why we can”
“The highest reward for a person's toil is not what they get for it, but what they become by it.”
“The ultimate lesson all of us have to learn is unconditional love, which includes not only others but ourselves as well”
“The world cares very little about what a man or woman knows; it is what the
man or woman is able to do that counts.”
“Time is a bird which flies away spite of being holding it for too long a time”
“Help people who need it, not people who want it.”
“It makes no sense to compare yourself with others because there will always be better & worse people than you out there. Each person has his own path to make. You are where you are now. Could you reach for the stars & have everything you want? realistically no. You may not win Olympic Gold in London 2012 , or be the CEO of a Fortune 500 company etc but you most definitely have the capacity to make YOUR life as the Masterpiece it could really be. The choice is yours...”
“I like not only to be loved, but to be told I am loved.”
“True Love has many forms. But my true love is her...and her name is B.D.C she is an amazing girl who i can connect with on many levels. She is a girl who i can tell everything to and not feel embarrassed about my flaws she can see through my imperfections and find me perfect the way i am and i can do the same with her i love her and if my love had to be compared to some sort of size on earth it wouldn't be compared to anything because my love for her is as big as the universe. I love you babe”
“I did the best I could at the time and when I knew better, I did better.”
““Don’t live your life by counting each breath, but in the moments that take your breath away””
“All I would tell people is to hold onto what was individual about themselves, not to allow their ambition for success to cause them to try to imitate the success of others. You've got to find it on your own terms.”
“If most people are not willing to see the difficulty, this is mainly because, consciously or unconsciously, they assume that it will be they who will settle these questions for the others, and because they are convinced of their own capacity to do this.”
“In any moment of decision the best thing you can do is the right thing. The worst
thing you can do is nothing. After all, if we do the wrong thing, at least we can
learn.”
“Love is the triumph of imagination over intelligence.”
“I could not love thee, dear, so much, loved I not honor more”
“It is only as we develop others that we permanently succeed.”
“Happiness can exist only in acceptance.”
“Listen closely to the winds,
for they carry messages,
of those long ago”
“I've learned that regardless of your relationship with your parents, you'll miss them when they're gone from your life.”
“It's the magic in our hearts that allows us to wait for the one we love”
“To serve is beautiful, but only if it is done with joy and a whole heart and a free mind.”
“Refrain from entering a profession where you are selling your time; as you will never receive fair value in return.”
“I'm interested in the minds of the mature and inspired.”
“True Love Is - when it's below zero outside, No heating inside, you wear layers to keep warmth, just to be with the one you love who keeps your heart on alive and fire.”
“You can do what ever you think, if you believe in what you think.”
“Love is the only game that is not called on account of darkness.”
“When peace like a river come's my way - When sorrow like the sea, tears from my eyes will fall - Whatever will happen or come my way - Just like Mother Natures weather - What will happen will happen - Nothing will stop it or stand in it's way”
“It's not a myth... when it rains, it pours, and it pours really hard”
“You are not the only influence in your children's life....that is why you MUST BE
the BEST INFLUENCE in your children's life!”
“Do not think about what you can gain but rather what is there to lose.”
“The most important thing about goals is having one.”
“Seize the moment. Remember all those women on the 'Titanic' who waved off the dessert cart.”
“In the arithmetic of love, one plus one equals everything, and two minus one equals nothing”
“Compete with yourself and you will always win, compare yourself to the Word of God and you will always come up short.”
“For imagination sets the goal ''picture'' which our automatic mechanism works on. We act, or fail to act, not because of ''will,'' as is so commonly believed, but because of imagination.”
“Who you decide to be today will determine your tomorrow.”
“Enjoy this moment...since it is happening now. Choose to love, be happy, and be content with who you are and what you have. You will be amazed with how incredibly at peace you will feel.”
“When need is gone, go for an alternative because the result could probably be greater than the need.”
“ife Is Not Dependant On You,Infact You Are Dependant On Life!!!
*”
“My imperfections and failures are as much a blessing from God as my successes and my talents and I lay them both at his feet.”
“The victory of success is half won when one gains the habit of setting goals and achieving them. Even the most tedious chore will become endurable as you parade through each day convinced that every task, no matter how menial or boring, brings you closer to fulfilling your dreams.”
“If inspiration does not find you today, routine will.”
“It's what you do when you're 'not feeling like it' that ultimately determines if you achieve your goals or not. Anybody can what's easy.”
“Trying is 'winning in the moment'...”
“We are more ready to try the untried when what we do is inconsequential.
Hence, the remarkable fact that many inventions had their birth as toys.”
“We must think and act like a nation of a billion people and not like that of a million people. Dream, dream, dream!”
“The love of heaven makes one heavenly.”
“God created all us to be a certain way. Don't let family, friend, or society change you. You are you for a special reason. If God wanted us to be like someone else he would have made us that person. So be proud of who you are and don't be change by anyone. If they accept you that's fine. If not that's fine too. Just be the you God created.”
“What the mind can conceive and believe, it can achieve.”
“Good things may come to those who wait, but great things will come to those who chase their dreams.”
“Live life with a fire that is never extinguished.”
“An ounce of blood is worth more than a pound of friendship.”
“I want "more" of "less".”
“If your not old enough to find out what killed your people, what killed your people will Kill You”
“You don't need anybody's permission to be a good leader. All you have to do is
be a resource to the team; know your people; look out after their welfare; keep
them informed and let them take part in the decisions which affect them. Do this
and the team and you will succeed.”
“Become a "possibilitarian". No matter how dark thing seem to be or actually are,
raise your sights and see the possibilities, always see them for they are always
there.”
“Everything you lose gives you a little more space for something new.”
“Be aware of the language of poverty as it's spoken around you; "I don't care about
money; I don't understand it; I'll never get out of debt." This is the language that
will keep you poor. Instead, affirm the positive: "I am financially secure. I create
abundance. I have everything I want and need.”
“He who moves not forward, goes backward”
“If you don't quit, and don't cheat, and don't run home when trouble arrives, you can only win.”
“Let your light shine. Shine within you so that it can shine on someone else. Let
your light shine.”
“Be bold, be bold, and everywhere be bold.”
“Seek first to understand, then to be understood”
“It is easy to blend in, except not when you are so blended you stand out.”
“Some people are making such thorough preparation for rainy days that they aren't enjoying today's sunshine.”
“Peace Out and In”
“To give a man full knowledge of morality, I would send him to no other book than the New Testament.”
“Confront the dark parts of yourself, and work to banish them with illumination and forgiveness. Your willingness to wrestle with your demons will cause your angels to sing. Use the pain as fuel, as a reminder of your strength.”
“There are two big forces at work, external and internal. We have very little
control over external forces such as tornados, earthquakes, floods, disasters,
illness and pain. What really matters is internal force. How do I respond to those
disasters? Over that I have complete control.”
“Never again clutter your days or nights with so many menial and unimportant things that you have no time to accept a real challenge when it comes along. This applies to play as well as work. A day merely survived is no cause for celebration. You are not here to fritter away your precious hours when you have the ability to accomplish so much by making a slight change in your routine. No more busy work. No more hiding from success. Leave time, leave space, to grow. Now. Now! Not tomorrow!”
“I want to put a goodwill notch on the bed post of the World.”
“Love allows you to dream. Fear allows you to pursue your dreams.”
“As every divided kingdom falls, so every mind divided between many studies confounds and saps itself.”
“Yesterday's greatness is not enough for tomorrow's success”
“Make progress one time and it makes you happy. Make progress day after day,
week after week and it makes you a champion.”
“Verily two things in the universe you save them by using them; time and mind.”
“If you go to work on your goals, your goals will go to work on you. If you go to work on your plan, your plan will go to work on you. Whatever good things we build end up building us.”
“Success demands planning and perspective and most importantly passion.”
“Be happy in the moment, that's enough. Each moment is all we need, not more.”
“I like a person who knows his own mind and sticks to it; who sees at once what, in given circumstances, is to be done, and does it.”
“The greatest man made treasures in the world, including man himself, were once just a sparkle of Love and lust in a mother’s eye.”
“The body germinates, the mind sprouts, the soul nourishes and the spirit blooms.”
“One of the best parts of being a family is that you can encourage one another. You
can believe in one another. You can affirm one another.”
“Before I met my husband, I'd never fallen in love. I'd stepped in it a few times.”
“Those who intend on becoming great should love neither themselves nor their own things, but only what is just, whether it happens to be done by themselves or others.”
“Decide today to design and build the ideal relationship in your life. It's up to you.”
“Speaking with kindness creates confidence, thinking with kindness creates
profoundness, giving with kindness creates love.”
“He was determined to beat it. He was quite an inspiration to all of us.”
“I think it's inspiring for the students to see and work with these professional actors.”
“People that you want to hate, are the ones that need the most love.”
“When you know the pressure is on and you have got to push yourself to make it through, it all comes down to the training that you did behind the scenes.”
“Maturity begins when we're content to feel we're right about something without
feeling the necessity to prove someone else wrong.”
“Feelings do not make a difference. It is the emotional attachment to the success that will lead to the achievement of your God-given destiny.”
“You are your greatest asset. Put your time, effort and money into training, grooming, and encouraging your greatest asset.”
“Example isn't another way to teach, it is the only way to teach”
“Rexroth's anger toward the soul-destroying force of capitalism was a huge inspiration to Allen.”
“I don't know the key to success, but the key to failure is to try please everyone.”
“In life, anytime you want to achieve something, you are going to have to pay a price.”
“Our choice of people to associate with, both personally and businesswise,
is one
of the most important choices you make. If you associate with turkeys, you will
never fly with the eagles.”
“Lifestyle freedom is a mindset.”
“What you take for granted will change someone's life.”
“Who decides how you will live your life? Remember, you only have one. Will you regret it or remember it fondly.”
“(My inspiration) was so strong with 'Love. Angel. Music. Baby.. I knew exactly what I wanted to do, and it was just like I had such a fire of inspiration.”
“What I believe in touches many aspects of religious and spiritual thought. Mainly I'm influenced and inspired by the eastern yogi's aspect of mysticism, Which is, I think, the future.”
“Fear doesn't exist anywhere except in the mind.”
“Tomorrow hopes we have learned something from yesterday.”
“Setting an example is not the main means of influencing another, it is the only means.”
“Lifestyle freedom is a commitment to do daily what others think about doing every once in a while.”
“Whoever loves, if he do not propose the right true end of love, he's one that goes to sea for nothing but to make him sick”
“Be agreeable. It raises the selfesteem
of others and makes you feel good about
yourself.”
“When you examine the lives of the most influential people who have ever walked among us, you discover one thread that winds through them all. They have been aligned first with their spiritual nature and only then with their physical selves.”
“Concern should drive us into action and not into a depression.”
“When you focus on making a difference in a person’s life, you will change yours.”
“Our greatest happiness in life does not depend on the condition of life in which
chance has placed us, but is always the result of good conscience, good health,
occupation, and freedom in all just pursuits.”
“While one person hesitates because he feels inferior, the other is busy making
mistakes and becoming superior.”
“All of your decisions in life are based upon your foundation.”
“Do the one thing you think you cannot do. Fail at it. Try again. Do better the second time. The only people who never tumble are those who never mount the high wire. This is your moment. Own it.”
“Never give in except to convictions of honor and good sense. Never yield to the apparently overwhelming might of the enemy.”
“We drew our inspiration from everyday stories.”
“They seek to demonize Jews and other minority groups in this country and, inspired by that theology and ideology, believe that violence is the answer, ... Ultimately, their aim is to create a white Christian nation that has no Jews, no minorities living here whatsoever.”
“She doesn't only make herself look good; she makes her teammates look good. It inspires a lot.”
“Remember that everyone you meet is afraid of something, loves something, and has lost something”
“Ordinary people believe in the possible. Extraordinary people visualize not what
is possible or probable, but rather what is impossible and by visualizing the
impossible, they begin to see it as possible.”
“If we can stand up to Hitler, all Europe may be free and the life of the world may move forward into broad, sunlit uplands.”
“You will not suddenly develop wealth consciousness if and when you become
"wealthy". It's the other way around. You develop wealth consciousness by
eliminating worry, by trusting in the universe and in your own inner resources.
Once you secure your wealth consciousness, true abundance is just around the
corner.”
“Success and true lifestyle freedom are in the foundations that you build on a daily basis.”
“Worry is like a rocking chair. It uses up all your energy, but where does it get
you.”
“It's afterwards you realize that the feeling of happiness you had with a man didn't necessarily prove that you loved him”
“When you stop learning, you still alive but your spirit is dead.”
“People do not attract that which they want, but that which they are. (To put it
another way: When you stop working on what it is you're trying to get and start
working on YOU, only then will you get what it is you want.)”
“The only person who is educated is the one who has learned how to learn - and change”
“Before I can walk in another person's shoes, I must first remove my own.”
“A writer is rarely so well inspired as when he talks about himself”
“We must just KBO ('Keep Buggering On').”
“The basic story and images are real incidents that happened at the boatyard. Being here in town helps inspire me, and I try to have things the way they actually are.”
“He's been both an example and an inspiration to us all.”
“The happiness of your life depends on the quality of your thoughts.”
“There is no man living who isn't capable of doing more than he thinks he can do.”
“Don't be careless about yourselves--on the other hand not too careful. Live well but do not flaunt it. Laugh a little and teach your men to laugh--get good humor under fire--war is a game that's played with a smile. If you can't smile, grin. If you can't grin, keep out of the way till you can.”
“Your body is your vehicle for life. As long as you are here, live in it. Love, honor,
respect and cherish it, treat it well and it will serve you in kind.”
“People make appointments for a haircut, to get their nails done, go to the doctor, get suits tailored, etc. Let me ask you a question, “When are you going to make an appointment to let
the champion out that is stuck inside of you?”
“Make it a rule of life never to regret and never to look back. Regret is an
appalling waste of energy; you can't build on it; it's only for wallowing in.”
“You have seen nothing like marriage for increasing the love between two people.”
“When we create harmony in our minds and hearts we will find it in our lives. The
inner creates the outer....always.”
“You will reap what you sow. Your harvest is ultimately your choice.”
“Combine your mental images with the emotion of desire to accelerate their
realization.”
“The smallest good deed is better than the grandest good intention.”
“Love is my religion - I could die for it.”
“What you resist persists and grows larger.”
“Its important to hear what?s going on in the other schools for inspiration, to be challenged and to be proud.”
“It's a human story, a tragic story and, in some ways, an inspirational story. These people were unbelievable.”
“Ron's spirit and Ron's mission continues on, and that is to inspire and educate young people.”
“To be pleased with one's limits is a wretched state.”
“There is plenty for everyone, including me.”
“More marriages might survive if the partners realized that sometimes the better comes after the worse.”
“The greatest discovery of my generation is that man can alter his life simply by altering his attitude of mind.”
“*Focus eliminates Confusion*”
“The biggest mental roadblocks that you will ever have to overcome are those
represented by your selflimiting
beliefs.”
“What a great inspiration she is to us all.”
“We live in a wonderful world that is full of beauty, charm and adventure. There is no end to the adventures that we can have if only we seek them with our eyes open.”
“ If you give something away, you always get it back; and then some.”
“What every child is looking for is to know, "Do your eyes light up when I walk
into the room?”
“Live Life Like Love Lingers”
“Work on what you can't see.”
“Happiness is like a cat. If you try to coax it or call it, it will avoid you. It will never come. But if you pay no attention to it and go about your business, you'll find it rubbing up against your legs and jumping into your lap.”
“We found a wonderful book of Tahitian tatoos, so we've taken a lot of inspiration from that.”
“uses (Kyle) as an inspiration. He says when he thinks about Kyle, 'I haven't got any problems.' Kyle is an inspiration to people, but he may not know it.”
“If you focus on making money, then you will fail because you must decide to focus on making a difference in people's lives in to order earn the right to be financially free.”
“The most profitable decisions in your life will be the most challenging.”
“To change who you are, change who you think you are.”
“Hate destroys, Love builds.
Hate tears down, Love renews and creates.
Hatred holds no hope for the future.
Love creates Today as its own better future.”
“The darkest night is often the bridge to the brightest tomorrow.”
“Every journey begins with but a small step and every day is a chance for a new,
small step in the right direction. Just follow your Heart song.”
“Small is the number of them that see with their own eyes, and feel with their own hearts”
“When you are older, you realize that no one was every thinking about you at all.”
“The pessimist borrows trouble; the optimist lends encouragement.”
“If at first, the idea is not absurd, then there is no hope for it”
“We have to accept the consequences of every deed, word and thought throughout
our lifetime.”
“I have no need to conform to the stereotypes others have defined for me.”
“Be grateful for whoever comes, because each guest has been sent as a
guide from beyond.”
“And in the end, the love we take will be equal to the love we make.”
“The clean and wholesome side of the '80s we've already explored. Now we're going to the more rock-inspired, more decadent - that whole new-wave look.”
“It's inspiring, and it's a fun place to be, and it's a very nice retail environment.”
“This book is about inspiration. It's about hope. It's about dealing with failure. Dealing with setbacks. Ron was no different. There were people who were there to encourage him. Ron had to experience all those things in a very real way, and often times by the grace of God, he was able to go forward.”
“She's an inspiration for the team. During practice, she showed us what she can do, and we believe in her.”
“ONLY INDIVIDUALS WITH CREDIBILITY AND ABILITY TAKE UP RESPONSIBILITY !”
“COMPETITION EXISTS FOR THOSE WHO COMPETE FOR THE SAME SPACE, THERE IS NO COMPETITION FOR THOSE WHO CREATE THEIR OWN SPACE !”
“I discovered a long time ago that if I helped people get what they wanted, I would always get what I wanted and I would never have to worry.”
“An idealist believes the short run doesn't count. A cynic believes the long run doesn't matter. A realist believes that what is done or left undone in the short run determines the long run.”
“A pinch of praise is worth a pound of scorn. A dash of encouragement is more helpful than a dipper of pessimism. A cup of kindness is better than a cupboard of criticism.”
“Life is as easy or as hard as you think it is.”
“If your dream is not so big that it changes who you are, then it's not big enough!”
“It is not the strongest of the species that survive, nor the most intelligent, but the one most responsive to change.”
“The finest gift you can give anyone is encouragement. Yet, almost no one gets the encouragement they need to grow to their full potential. If everyone received the encouragement they need to grow, the genius in most everyone would blossom and the world would produce abundance beyond the wildest dreams. We would have more than one Einstein, Edison, Schweitzer, Mother Theresa, Dr. Salk and other great minds in a century.”
“To live in the presence of great truths and eternal laws, to be led by permanent
ideals that is what keeps a man patient when the world ignores him, and calm and
unspoiled when the world praises him.”
“It is more shameful to mistrust one's friends than to be deceived by them”
“You have great, untapped reserves of potential within you. Your job is to release
them.”
“My husband used to frustrate me so much because he wouldn't change, so I did.”
“The belief that you have in your dream will get you through life’s ups and downs.”
“The easiest thing in the world to be is you. The most difficult thing to be is what
other people want you to be. Don't let anyone put you in that position.”
“From start to finish we played a very inspired game. They took some early penalties and we took advantage of them. We just played disciplined. We don't want to go back to Toledo.”
“My hero has always been Nolan Ryan. The guy was a bulldog. ... He's been my inspiration, That picture where he got hit on the head with a fastball and he's bleeding, but he still pitches...”
“97% of people are not committed to anything.
When the wind changes, they go the other way.”
“We cannot control the past. We cannot control the future. What we DO have is right in front of us.”
“Once you have learned to judge a person by their heart and personality, rather than by their outward appearances, you have learned to be a true friend.”
“If you are struggling to accomplish something and are frustrated, let that be a sign that You are working to hard and Jesus is hardly working.”
“Hope for a better future begins by making Peace with your past.”
“Life is about the Now - enjoy this moment, it is unique and never to be repeated.”
“The problem with aiming for success is everytime we get close the definition changes.”
“To rise higher, lift others up.”
“What WE can do together Far exceeds what we can do alone.”
“You think you can be misunderstood, try being God.”
“Come away with Me My beloved, I want to show you what I painted on the canvas of your life and I know the beauty of it will delight and amaze you.”
“I realize that life is cyclic. I can look back now and see that my life has gone in cycles and seasons. There is healing and then it comes back around and deeper healing is gained the next cycle. I believe it continues this way until God has you where He wants you and can use you the most.”
“You rose into my life like a promised sunrise, brightening my days with the light in your eyes. I've never been so strong. Now I'm where I belong.”
“The collections have been very sober, because we return into a minimalism. We've seen a lot of British inspiration. We've seen a lot of the return of the 80s — skinny pants or leggings or foot-less tights, worn under blazers or big baggy knitwear.”
“Beyond matters of the soul, the inspiration for most art is in nature. For me, aesthetic meteorites are the closest approximate to being able to behold that which is in the heavens.”
“Herbert has been an inspiration to us, ... It took courage for Herbert to do what he has done and to experience what Herbert has experienced.”
“Gods intention for mankind was not to wait on earth in order to get to heaven, but to connect with Him in order to bring heaven to earth.”
“Our suffering serves a bigger purpose than we can see. The enemy tried to take us down but Gods plan was always to bring us up. The Light always overshadows the darkness but we have to flip the switch to see it.”
“The difference between a Good day and a Bad day has less to do with the circumstances than the power we have over our thoughts.”
“I seem to be failing my way to success.”
“When you choose to change and commit to your future, you are going to create controversy with the people around you.”
“There is a fundamental difference between life and living, all of us have life, but we must purpose to live.”
“The collections have been very sober, because we return into a minimalism. We've seen a lot of British inspiration. We've seen a lot of the return of the 80s -- skinny pants or leggings or foot-less tights, worn under blazers or big baggy knitwear.”
“A committed champion is one who will do whatever it takes for as long as it takes to fulfill, manifest and live their God-given destiny.”
“Are you willing to pay the price for success? The investment is costly.”
“The price of freedom is responsibility, but it's a bargain, because freedom is
priceless.”
“A committed person is focused on his ultimate destination.”
“Your mistake does not define who you are...you are your possibilities”
“The smaller the heart, the bigger the hate it shelters.”
“If you change your thinking, you change your life.”
“The world itself is a great teacher, a constant guide and inspiration. That is the reason why man is surrounded and sustained by the world.”
“The world is moved not only by the mighty shoves of the heroes, but also by the
aggregate of the tiny pushes of each honest worker.”
“Allow your rainy season to feed the seed in your heart so that you can mature to the next level in life.”
“I’ve had a lot of worries in my life, most of which never happened.”
“No one but YOU owns the title deed to your dream.”
“Focused, determined champions win races. Distracted people become losers in the race of life.”
“Judge yourself fairly. Sentence yourself lightly. Pardon yourself often.”
“Don't walk in front of me; I may not follow. Don't walk behind me; I may not lead. Just walk beside me and be my friend.”
“Everything I did in my life that was worthwhile I caught hell for.”
“Self decisions are the #1 key for success or failure.”
“Catch people in the act of doing something right.”
“You cannot squeak by in life. You have to get totally immersed, make a decision, get into it and get fired up about your life.”
“Big Man upstairs wouldn't put a mountain in front of you if He knew you couldn't climb it. Have Faith.”
“It takes a habit to replace a habit.”
“Theodore Roosevelt said Do what you can, with what you have, right where you
are. This is great advice.”
“We are so excited that we have played a role in inspiring this Irish celebration.”
“I think all of us are inspired. We made it through this year and were so much more successful than we ever thought we'd be considering the challenges we faced.”
“It's just fabulous. This last quarter has been truly remarkable, it's been inspirational. It just shows that people put their money where their hearts and minds are.”
“It is often wonderful how putting down on paper a clear statement of a case helps
one to see, not perhaps the way out, but the way in.”
“Loving someone can drive us crazy. Loving the wrong person can drive us to hell!”
“It is good to have an end to journey towards; but it is the journey that matters in the end.”
“No act of kindness, however small, is ever wasted.”
“Clients want to pay a fair value for a great product. Totally free creates ambivalence for a discerning client. Money changing hands reduces the ‘scary’ part of a deal.”
“You don't just luck into things . . . You build step by step, whether it's
friendships or opportunities.”
“They walk on the Lord's Path, and inspire others to walk on the Lord's Path as well. Bathing in a pool of holy water, they are washed clean of filth. But, by bathing in a stagnant pond, they are contaminated with even more filth.”
“Persistence is the root habit of a true champion.”
“‘No written word, no spoken plea/Can teach our youth what they should be/Nor all the books on all the shelves/It’s what the teachers are themselves.’”
“Success will not lower its standard to us. We must raise our standard to success.”
“Realize that now, in this moment of time, you are creating. You are creating your
next moment based on what you are feeling and thinking. That is what's real.”
“Ancient success wisdom says whatsoever one sows, one reaps. Start to sow new seeds today, and you will own the title deed to
your dream tomorrow.”
“If you can keep your wits about you while all others are losing theirs, and blaming you. . . . The world will be yours and everything in it, what's more, you'll be a man, my son.”
“The Lord Himself chants, and the Lord Himself inspires others to chant.”
“Every time guys come from this tour and have success at the next level it serves as inspiration. Look at Matt Hansen.”
“It is better to correct your own faults than those of another.”
“People say they love truth, but in reality they want to believe that which they love is true.”
“If you have put your foot in your mouth, it is probably not the time to try to
dance.”
“The purpose of art is not a rarified, intellectual distillate it is life, intensified,
brilliant life.”
“It's the circle of life, and it moves us all, through despair and hope, through faith and love, 'till we find our place, on the path unwinding”
“Never let the fear of striking out get in your way.”
“To live a creative life, we must lose our fear of being wrong.”
“Remember, we learn nothing by speaking.”
“The greatest discovery you will ever make is that nothing is impossible.”
“There's so much pollution in the air now that if it weren't for our lungs there'd be no place to put it all.”
“I am a champion palm tree! I know I can sustain the hurricanes in life, because I paid the price and my roots are down deep.”
“My darkest times are the seasons that will manifest the depth of my greatness*”
“Man on Wire”
“I have had dreams, and I have had nightmares. I overcame the nightmares
because of my dreams.”
“You can see from my retrospective show that many products reflect the Chinese inspiration.”
“Working in the tranquil setting of my backyard is also highly motivational and inspirational. I also get ideas from a variety of individuals. One lady who owns a gift shop suggested the wings on the mermaids. At art shows, people are always giving me ideas for new art pieces, and then there are also personal interests. We love to sail; hence, the sailboats.”
“You win some, you lose some, and some get rained out, but you gotta suit up for
them all.”
“I walk the walk of success, for this is who I am.”
“Any time you think the problem is out there, that very thought is the problem.”
“Some of us might find happiness if we quit struggling so desperately for it.”
“Ask yourself, “What can I do today to improve my daily championship action steps that will ultimately lead to the
achievement of my true purpose?””
“Familiarize yourself with the chains of bondage and you prepare your own limbs
to wear them. Accustomed to trample on the rights of others, you have lost the
genius of your own independence and become the fit subjects of the first cunning
tyrant who rises among you.”
“The senator might remember that the Evangelists had a more inspiring subject.”
“Success comes when you do what you love to do, and commit to being the best
in your field.”
“Sound character provides the power with which a person may ride the emergencies of life instead of being overwhelmed by them. Failure is... the highway to success.”
“When the sea was calm all ships alike showed mastership in floating.”
“Though I am always in haste, I am never in a hurry because I never undertake
more work than I can go through with calmness of spirit.”
“Court not opinion, therefore. For it seems to me that the most awkward situations in which we find ourselves are often born out of the womb of the opinions of men and cradled in the arms of their notions.”
“Pleasure that is obtained by unreasonable and unsuitable cost, must always end in pain.”
“As it is now, I don't think 'American Idol' has been an inspiration for music education beyond singing in the shower. If they [Fox and Idol producers] were smart, they would figure out a way to associate themselves with a great music-based charity.”
“Because I don't play guitar any more, African harmonies and rhythms have been an inspiration to me. I love the raw origin of the sound. It complements my voice and words naturally.”
“It is neither wealth nor splendor; but tranquillity and occupation which give
happiness.”
“Birthdays, Birthdays every singale day is a Birthday, so Happy Birthday.”
“The thing always happens that you really believe in; and the belief in thing makes
it happen.”
“One man cannot do right in one department of life whilst he is occupied in doing
wrong in any other department. Life is one indivisible whole.”
“Humor can be an incredible, lacerating and effective weapon.”
“an inspiration to me.”
“She was very inspirational both as a professional and in her personal life.”
“He that answers a matter before he hears, it is folly and shame unto him.”
“If you go to your grave without painting your masterpiece, it will not get painted.
No one else can paint it only you.”
“Dean has been an inspirational leader of our team for two years. He isn't done yet. He is still capable of helping us.”
“In winwin
performance agreements, consequences become the natural or logical
result of performance rather than a reward or punishment arbitrarily handed out
by the person in charge.”
“Failures are not supposed to wipe you out; they're tests to help discover who you are.”
“I am a great believer in luck, and I find the harder I work the more I have of it.”
“I don't know if anyone really tried to inspire or instigate it. It just happened. It's just the way things are here. There's a special bond.”
“There were a lot of really good teachers at Valley who taught me well and were very inspirational. They taught me to want to make the most out of my life and to learn how to learn.”
“He has been such an inspiration to me.”
“They are our inspiration ? to stay healthy, keep active, have a good outlook on life and just enjoy everything instead of sitting around waiting to die.”
“The thing has way more value in inspiration than in clean-energy production.”
“Passionate people raise the standards.”
“Technology has continued to bring the world closer together and increased the horizons of each individual as never before.”
“The Mount was her refuge and her inspiration.”
“Bad habits are like chains that are too light to feel until they are too heavy to
carry.”
“Deeds, not words shall speak to me.”
“Most folks want to believe in Armstrong, in the credibility of his courage, in the veracity of his inspiration, in the purity of his Tour de France titles. Most want to believe, but does everyone dare? We've been suckers for hearts-and-flowers icons before.”
“I hope this will be an inspiration for the future generation of skaters.”
“When you were born, you cried and the world rejoiced. Live your life in such a
manner that when you die the world cries and you rejoice.”
“He leaves a legacy of inspiration and courage to his many friends and colleagues around the world,”
“You get so inspired by others. Look at Angelina Jolie and all she does. I'm so excited about this project of hers,”
“Once people learn something, they're reluctant to let it go”
“People who mind don't matter, and people who matter don't mind.”
“We were dealing with a very cautious, very careful consumer who was not really inspired to buy anything because there wasn't anything worth buying.”
“Hoop has just been an inspiration, especially for myself. He always has a positive attitude. I think a lot of guys who get upset if they're not playing a lot can really learn from that.”
“It's inspiring to the community and is A-1 as far as I'm concerned.”
“Learn from the past. Live in the present. Create your future.”
“More power than all the success slogans ever penned by human hand is the realization for every man that he has but one boss. That boss is the man - he - himself.”
“Our inspiration was coming out and knowing how we played against them in (California). We didn't play our best game, and we were more enthused than anything to get a little payback, if you want to call it that. The fourth quarter was a lot more energetic.”
“Listen regularly to customers and employees. Create an atmosphere of utmost
trust and credibility. Employees have to know that every decision, direction and
redirection is for the Greater Good. You need that level of trust to change the
direction of the company on a dime, which in this business, you sometimes need
to do.”
“We shall fight on the beaches. We shall fight on the landing grounds. We shall
fight in the fields, and in the streets, we shall fight in the hills. We shall never
surrender!”
“We all knew he was brilliant. But his gift was to inspire the uninspired. Physical chemistry is a difficult subject, but he was so jolly that we enjoyed it while we dreaded it.”
“My family is my inspiration: my husband, kids, parents, brother and sister.”
“What changes your life is not learning more. What changes your life is making
decisions and using your personal power and taking action.”
“So the story goes, that all may know, His love.”
“A prudent question is one half of wisdom.”
“Quality is everyone's responsibility.”
“No one but you owns the title deed to your life.”
“Learn to selfconquest, persevere thus for a time, and you will perceive very
clearly the advantage which you gain from it.”
“No nightly trance or breathèd spell, / Inspires the pale-eyed priest from the prophetic cell.”
“I think we did an interesting and inspiring rendition.”
“[But Herrera's inspiration came from ladies of another era.] The women of the 1940s were very elegant and very glamorous, ... I took some hints of it and I showed a collection that is very ladylike.”
“The mind is not a vessel to be filled but a fire to be kindled.”
“Problems happen—that is the very nature of the world scene—they also should be viewed as personal and professional opportunities.”
“We tend to fall in love with the things that we think are true.”
“Everyone has his own specific vocation or mission in life . . . Therein he cannot
be replaced, nor can his life be repeated. Thus, everyone's task is as unique as is
his specific opportunity to implement it.”
“Work banishes those three great evils: boredom, vice and poverty.”
“Books that cannot bear examination, certainly ought not to be established as divine inspiration by penal laws”
“We get our inspiration from the spa industry.”
“In the practice of tolerance, one's enemy is the best teacher.”
“You and only you can make the decision to rip the chains of your past (your default settings) off your ankles and start walking free from what has been holding you back all these years.”
“We are what and where we are because we have first imagined it.”
“What really matters is what you do with what you have.”
“Success comes to those who become success conscience. Failure comes to those
who indifferntly allow themselves to become failure conscience.”
“We grew up on U2 music. We look up to them as a major influence and inspiration.”
“My parents have always been an inspiration, raising two children and sending them both to college while each holding full-time jobs. Both of them have been so unselfish in all of my 18 years, and have always given whatever they could to me first before they even thought of themselves.”
“Nothing inspires music lovers like direct contact with a true master,”
“Circumstances do not make the man; they merely reveal him to himself.”
“Decision plus action = results.”
“We grew up on U2 music, ... We look up to them as a major influence and inspiration.”
“Change is not a process for the impatient.”
“Upon this day I decree I am the master of my destiny. No more loathing against the light, no more embracing of the night. From this day you will see a man freed from misery.”
“What crazy idea do you have down deep inside that makes people chuckle or
laugh every time you bring it up? However wild it may be, no matter how many
scoff at it, risk a little time and a few bucks. You may be able to demonstrate you
were right after all. And you'll be on your way to success.”
“Some teams in their position are scared by the NCAA tournament. They were inspired by it.”
“We are creatures of habit, and we do what we know how to do. And if you're
gonna change the momentum in your life, then something dramatic has to happen
to get you to change that.”
“Your words predict your harvest, because they are the seeds
that you for your future.”
“For me a painting is like a story which stimulates the imagination and draws the
mind into a place filled with expectation, excitement, wonder and pleasure.”
“If you want a taste of heaven, you have to let go of everthing”
“Faith doesn't make sense; that's why it makes miracles.”
“To live a creative life, we must lose our fear of being wrong.”
“President Reagan was a formidable political campaigner, who provided an inspirational voice to America when our people were searching for a clear message of hope and confidence,”
“Jenny has been a real inspiration in her battle to come back and Cyndi has done an outstanding job. I think we're playing pretty well at this point.”
“As artists, the pleasure is to really have your work resonate and mean something. Art takes its inspiration from reality.”
“My sister was really inspirational, ... She and Greg were out there training for events. So, I thought, 'Why don't I get out there? I can't sit on the sidelines forever.”
“Success in life is being, doing, and having what you want in your own way.”
“Life is never too short to be who you want to be”
“Truly one of the great inspirational leaders I've ever been around and the most highly disciplined person I've ever been around. I've referred to him as the George Washington of George Mason University, meaning he was the founding father. He was the true leader of the program, and everything we've done since then is a reflection of his communication to his teammates that what Coach L says (is) what we're going to do.”
“Your giving predicts your living.”
“Life is the first gift, love is the second, and understanding the third”
“Michael's narrow finish last year has him knocking on the door again, and deservedly so. As the inspirational leader of the first NFL team to win three Super Bowls in four years, he is due.”
“I saw what Joel did (at SIU) and it's given me the drive and inspiration to do those same things with this program. He's done a great job there and that's something that's been driving me.”
“There have been too many things that have happened in my life to look at
anything as coincidence.”
“Amateurs strive to do things right. Professionals strive to never do them wrong.”
“Football has been an inspiration to people who have other troubles. There are problems throughout New Orleans and Louisiana. We owe to those people not to take football from them.”
“Nothing is Perfect in this world,We just have to make it Perfect”
“A problem is your chance to do your best.”
“Peter 
 Ackerman's work and writings on nonviolent civic resistance 
 have been a source of inspiration and education for citizens’ 
 movements and activists all over the world, ... His strong 
 and unwavering commitment to fostering and strengthening democracy 
 is a tremendous asset for Freedom House, and we are privileged 
 to benefit from his leadership.”
“What we have done is taken a lot of inspiration from the mainframe, which was arguably one of the most evolved forms of computing made by man. Fabric7 has taken the overall view of the mainframe and moved it to the 21st century.”
“I don't really think about it too much. All I know is people inspired me very much and I tried to inspire people. It went both ways.”
“Quiet your mind and picture yourself attaining your dream. . . . Without even
realizing it, your confidence soars and you become a magnet for Good things.”
“Integrity is one of several paths. It distinguishes itself from the others because it
is the right path, and the only one upon which you will never get lost.”
“Every day when I'm out there, he's an inspiration to me, ... I think about him every day. When we complain about something at practice, something little, I think about Pat. He'd die to ...”
“Genius ... means little more than the faculty of perceiving in an unhabitual way.”
“You don't have to be demeaned and abused to be loved, all you have to be is accepted for who you are.”
“Surprising things can happen to anyone who, when a disagreeable or discouraged
thought comes into his [or her] mind, just has the sense to remember in time and
push it out by putting in an agreeable, determinedly courageous one. Two things
cannot be in one place.”
“We are inspired by the tremendous response to the Starbucks brand domestically and internationally and could not be more pleased with the overall performance of the company.”
“It is in your moments of decision that your destiny is shaped”
“If you can live by the best inside yourself, the worst outside yourself will crumble at your feet.”
“We are inspired by the tremendous response to the Starbucks brand domestically and internationally and could not be more pleased with the overall performance of the company,”
“Failure is the tuition you pay for success.”
“The meaning that you give an event is the event.”
“Inspiration in matters of taste will not come twice”
“Before I ever think of a design I have to select the fabrics, so fabrics actually are the inspiration for any collection.”
“O God! may we after being inspired by virtuous qualities tread on the path of righteousness so that we can attain self-development and all round progress. ”
“The holiday-inspired ones you use once, then can?t use again until the following year.”
“As the cliché goes, ’The best defense is a good offense.’ Go forward be
aggressive. Don’t give your fears or competition a chance to pin you down.
Trepidation and loss of confidence come with a defensive posture. Attack the
problem, attack the market, attack the competition, and you are proceeding
positively. Fear will melt and confidence will rise.”
“The most potent truth serum is the prospect of forgiveness”
“I'm looking at other sources for inspiration; feelings and developments that are happening in human life itself.”
“Creativity is the sudden cessation of stupidity.”
“Friendship makes prosperity more brilliant, and lightens adversity by dividing
and sharing it.”
“I'm looking less to musical sources for inspiration and broadening my scope beyond the entertainment field and looking more into life itself. Life today.”
“They should use it as inspiration. There's nothing left for me to say. They've got to make it happen now.”
“Once you get rid of the idea that you must please other people before you please
yourself, and you begin to follow your own instincts only then can you be
successful. You become more satisfied, and when you are other people tend to
be satisfied by what you do.”
“If you really want something, you have to focus in order to achieve it. Close your eyes, envision what you want, open them, and go. Don't ever lose sight, and you will get there.”
“That which we obtain too easily, we esteem too lightly.”
“In times of grief and great despair one must find solace in the dawning of a new day.”
“We should thank God that He did not give us the power of hearing through walls; otherwise there would be no such thing as friendship”
“Enlightenment means taking full responsibility for your life.”
“A man must fill his life with meaning, meaning is not automatically given to life.
It is hard work to fill one's life with meaning.”
“He's definitely been an inspiration. When I found out, I was shocked. He was so young, healthy and full of energy.”
“There are only two ways to live your life. One as though nothing is a miracle. The
other is as though everything is a miracle.”
“Love is the force that ignites the spirit and binds teams together.”
“Real success in life means the individual's conquest of himself; it means how he
has bettered himself not how he has bettered his fortune. The great question of life
is not 'What have I?' but 'What am I?'”
“My goal is to be one with the music. I just dedicate my whole life to this art.”
“This story is about truth, beauty, freedom; but above all things, this story is about love”
“Getting your house in order and reducing the confusion gives you more control over your life. Personal organization some how releases or frees you to operate more effectively.”
“Your incredible brain can take you from rags to riches, from loneliness to
popularity and from depression to happiness and joy if you use it properly.”
“The secret of happiness is not in doing what one likes, but in liking what one has
to do.”
“It's easy for me to establish an immediate rapport with riders ? I can hop in the pipe and ride, I've been there before. I do it for the same reason they do: the love of the sport. My goals are the same as theirs. I want for them what they want for themselves and that's the best that they can do.”
“How does a person make a difference? The history of the world is simply a
chronicle of the deeds of a small number of ordinary people who had
extraordinary levels of commitment. Those individuals who had the power to
make a meaningful difference in the quality of our lives are the men and women
we call heroes. Who are your heroes?”
“As much as we tried to downplay it, there was no denying the pressure. We talked about it.”
“If it pleases God to make me a bird instead of a human, I would rather be a Morning Dove in character but as the Eagle in strength.”
“Good morning, Life -- and all
Things glad and beautiful.”
“Gen. Pace has shown himself to be a brilliant thinker and an inspiring leader,”
“The Bible is a wonderful source of inspiration for those who don't understand it.”
“Your morality is impeccable and that is why I am inspired by you.”
“I think Kim is an example or inspiration for other people. With perseverance and willingness to accept some help she's achieved a lot of success.”
“Elliot was really in a period where he was writing a lot ... feeling the inspiration. It was really hitting with us, feeling like he was pushing the next evolution of the band. The eight of us are a collective, but Elliot stepped up to the plate with a bunch of material that was really progressive.”
“And that crushing can be very inspiring.”
“Be global. Do global. Have global.”
“I was once asked if a big business man ever reached his objectives. I replied that
if a man ever reached his objective he was not a big business man.”
“To be brief is almost a condition of being inspired”
“I would rather have a mind opened by wonder than one closed by belief”
“Live your life for the sake of life itself. As well as you do good for goodness sakes. You just done it without mention.”
“You cannot discover oceans unless you have the courage to leave the shore.”
“Sacred and inspired divinity, the sabaoth and port of all men's labours and peregrinations.”
“If it is not worth dying for, than it is probably not worth living for.”
“Today is a stepping stone for tomorrow. The bigger the stone you climb today, the higher up you'll be tomorrow.”
“I stood against the wind time and time again, but now it's clear to me that it's not the wind that shook the heart of me, but it is I who can barely stand.”
“Why are so many people afraid to make even the smallest effort to help others?
One of the most common reasons is that they are just embarrassed. They're afraid
of being rejected or appearing foolish. But you know what? If you want to play
the game of life and win, you've got to play full out. You've got to be willing to
feel stupid, and you've got to be willing to try things that might not work.
Otherwise, how can you innovate, how can you grow, how can you discover who
you really are?”
“Asking for forgiveness is easier than asking for permission.”
“We two form a multitude.”
“The Welsh were hugely inspirational to us last season.”
“The Welsh were hugely inspirational to us last season. We are obviously very familiar with them and what they did was fantastic.”
“Don't live in the past. Live in the future by living in the present.”
“Education is not a preparation for life; education is life itself.”
“Take your life in your own hands and what happens? A terrible thing: no one is
to blame.”
“Love does not alter the beloved, it alters itself.”
“If you are never scared, embarrassed or hurt, it means you never take chances”
“The mind ought sometimes to be diverted, that it may return the better to
thinking.”
“served as inspiration for Roger Baldwin, a future founder of the American Civil Liberties Union.”
“Great ambition is the passion of a great character. Those endowed with it may perform very good or very bad acts. All depends on the principals which direct them.”
“Always make best of what's not up for negotiation.”
“The young do not know enough to be prudent, and therefore they attempt the impossible - and achieve it, generation after generation.”
“A path to self-liberalization beings with a solid foundation of a higher education.”
“Ignorance is measure measured by the unsure”
“doing something locally is good but doing something internationally is great”
“It has all the contortions of the sibyl without the inspiration”
“We need Michael back as captain as well as a player. He is a very successful captain and very inspirational.”
“We want the essays written for the Take The Challenge contest to inspire others on the road to a home purchase. This is a great way for both renters and current homeowners to publicly express how owning a home can make a difference in their lives.”
“Everybody needs somebody.”
“Remember when you could fly.
When the word you used most was why.
When your super heroes would never die.
When thoughts and dreams rained down from the sky.
When almost anything could make you cry.
When there was absolutely nothing you wouldn’t try.
When you’d jump in with both feet screaming banzai.
Why did you grow up and have to say goodbye.
Now I’m left here all alone, just me, myself and I.”
“One of the nice things about problems is that a good many of them do not exist except in our imaginations.”
“Play is the exultation of the possible.”
“You don't have to travel far to find the greatest experiences life has to offer.”
“When you come right down to it, the ground you stand on is the ground you stand
on.”
“For me that's a stairway to heaven. Let's hope it'll be a ladder of hope and inspiration for the future.”
“Whoever said love is blind is dead wrong. Love is the only thing that lets us see each other with the remotest accuracy.”
“He that is overcautious will accomplish little”
“We shall never forget their enthusiasm, love of space, dedication, and their continued inspiration.”
“The purpose of LIFE is to be HAPPY. And. To LIVE your LIFE in your own way to INSPIRE others to LIVE a LIFE of HAPPINESS.”
“When you can see without your eyes, you will then see past the disguise.”
“Within your heart, keep one still, secret spot where dreams may go.”
“The ceremony itself was inspiring. But it was a debacle from the outset.”
“The fact he's doing it is inspiring to me. I look at him and think, hey, I'm only 32.”
“Not only has our competitive orientation cost society the skill of low achievers
who might have excelled under different learning conditions, but it has largely
undermined our capacity for teamwork and trust. In the classrooms of our youth,
students were rarely allowed to pool knowledge on tests or work together on
research projects. Such prohibitions, coupled with comparative grading policies,
conditioned us to view one another as opponents.”
“Your life is your message to the world. Make it inspiring.”
“And Mrs. Parks, who was 92 years old and lived a life that was long and inspirational well beyond that single act -- I think for all of us, her inspiration will live on.”
“Days of absence, sad and dreary, Clothed in sorrow's dark array, Days of absence, I am weary; She I love is far away.”
“It's not hard to make decisions when you know what your values are.”
“I think it would give some hope and inspiration to the people of the region that we are now moving forward on the road map toward the vision that the president had,”
“There is no greater inspiration than empowering children to help other children.”
“Let us have faith that right makes might, and in that faith let us to the end dare to
do our duty as we understand it.
It's not hard to make decisions when you know what your values are.”
“Fear is the ultimate self imposed illusion.”
“It is the food which you furnish to your mind that determines the whole character of your life”
“Live your life...Not your age”
“All my life I have always known I was born to greatness.”
“In the sweetness of friendship let there be laughter, and sharing of pleasures.”
“That's all nonviolence is - organized love.”
“Coach (Ken) O'Donnell always tells us stories of the old teams. It's inspiration for us that we can be the stories for the next kids coming up. We want to win the game so we can show those guys that we're still here. The game is dedicated to them.”
“The shirt inspires so much of what we see, ... It becomes very sexy because it's close to the body, long, lean and yet, there's softness from below the hip. ... They kind of float along.”
“I wanted to do something that had a purely musical inspiration, and I was inspired by the sound of choirs and the English pastoral music I used to hear when growing up. I was also inspired by the textures and rhythmic vitality of the so-called minimalists, Philip Glass and John Adams, and I'm always intrigued by the sound of the recording studio.”
“Let us have faith that right makes might, and in that faith let us to the end dare to
do our duty as we understand it.”
“Winning is not everything; but it is something powerful, indeed beautiful, in
itself, something as necessary to the strong spirit as striving is necessary to the
healthy character.”
“Somebody like Wayne really inspires you, ... He's gotten to the pinnacle and done it the hard way.”
“The best option in life was never easy.”
“The greatest risk is the risk of riskless living.”
“He stayed in there and worked hard and finally got his shot, that's what inspired me. I was impressed with the way he handled his whole situation. Never complaining about stuff, never saying if this would have went this way, this would have happened. He said this is the way it is.”
“To a musician, to be with others who appreciate what you do is very inspiring.”
“The human heart knows thing the eyes cant see, and feels the things the mind cant understand.. but if love is just a word, then why does it hurt so much when you find it is not there???”
“Synergy: The combined effect of individuals in collaboration that exceeds the
sum of their individual effects.”
“Music is such an inspiration to me,”
“Life consists in penetrating the unknown, and fashioning our actions in accord
with the new knowledge thus acquired.”
“What one great thing would you dare to dream if you knew you could not fail?
The easiest person to deceive is one's own self.”
“Music is such an inspiration to me. I love it when it completes a story, along with the words and image,”
“They react to the music. The artistry, the inspiration of the musicianship comes first.”
“Music has always been an inspiring factor in my work, and this piece portrays a DJ performing his craft.”
“If you don't like what you're doing, then don't do it.”
“The 'morality of compromise' sounds contradictory. Compromise is usually a sign of weakness, or an admission of defeat. Strong men don't compromise, it is said, and principles should never be compromised.”
“Thousands of geniuses live and die undiscovered -- either by themselves or by others.”
“One must marry one's feelings to one's beliefs and ideas. That is probably the only way to achieve a measure of harmony in one's life.”
“There are no limitations to the mind except those we acknowledge”
“Optimism doesn't wait on facts. It deals with prospects. Pessimism is a waste of time.”
“To a Zoe Ball fan: Poor thing, she's your inspiration? What hope is there for you?”
“A quitter never wins and a winner never quits”
“No one can make you jealous, angry, vengeful, or greedy / unless you let him.”
“I've never seen a wrestler like this, and I will never see another one like him. He's a huge inspiration to me, his teammates and his entire school.”
““Unconditional Love is the greatest gift
Anyone can ever give,But is rarely given!””
“Failure is nature's plan to prepare you for great responsibilities”
“It is not how much we have, but how much we enjoy, that makes happiness.”
“If we weren't playing for anything, I don't know if he'd be doing this. It's got to inspire everyone to see him out there.”
“He's also called the preacher because he's such an inspiring speaker on the subject of natural area.”
“They often inspire great loyalty as well. If the employee is strapped, the company as a family is there for them; and alternately, if the company is in trouble, the workers are willing to go the extra mile to help the company and the family,”
“We must ask where we are and whither we are tending.”
“A long, healthy, and happy life is the result of making contributions, of having
meaningful projects that are personally exciting and contribute to and bless the
lives of others.”
“Education brings about opportunity, and in turn inspiration.”
“If I could define enlightenment briefly I would say it is ''the quiet acceptance of what is.''”
“All achievements, all earned riches, have their beginning in an idea.”
“was an inspiration to me to be mindful of our duty to history and our place in preserving the strength of this great nation we serve.”
“I can't think of better inspiration. It's right there. You're looking at it — this is what you work for. There's nothing else that needs to be said or heard.”
“Success is not permanent and failure is not fatal.”
“Forgive yourself for your faults and your mistakes and move on.
Les Brown”
“I thought Joey's (forced) fumble was huge. Joey's just an inspirational leader for us back there. He did a great job of setting the edges (Sunday).”
“By making and keeping promises to ourselves and others, little by little, our
honor becomes greater than our moods.”
“Nothing external to you has any power over you.”
“We don't realize how much we create reality through language. If we say that life
is hard, it will be hard.”
“Jerome Bettis is an inspiration. He's been an inspiration throughout the playoffs. But it comes down to going out Sunday and doing the things we've been doing.”
“Bowling is the sport I'm best at and Kim has inspired me be female bowler because there are not many left.”
“It never works out like it's planned, but it always works out like it should.”
“Good timber does not grow with ease; the stronger the wind, the stronger the
trees.”
“Jerome has been an inspiration to everyone, players and coaches. He's more than just a great player, he's the consummate team mate.”
“Old habits can't be thrown out the upstairs window. They have to be coaxed
down the stairs one step at a time.”
“In this life we laugh our asses off and die crying.”
“You aren't your experiences. You are what you make of them.”
“It's been an inspiration to our team, no question. We talked about it. The fact that we're able to play this last game in Detroit, we're getting him back there. Now what we have to do is make sure this is a positive. That's the message now and the driving force for that team, really.”
“Our inheritance of well founded, slowly conceived codes of honor, morals and
manners, the passionate convictions which so many hundreds of millions share
together of freedom and justice, are far more precious to us than anything which
scientific discoveries can bestow.”
“The character traits most critical to creating empowerment are: Integrity habits
are congruent with values, words with deeds, expressions with feelings. Maturity
courage balanced with consideration. Abundance mentality there is plenty out
there for everybody. A person with these character traits can be genuinely happy
for the success and accomplishments of others.”
“We've got a very close team. Jerome has been an inspiration to us all year.”
“Have to and get to—both are choices. One is negative and one is positive. Choose the right one and it can change your life.”
“When you write things down, you are that much closer to achieving them.”
“Keep your face to the sunshine and you cannot see the shadows.”
“He a classy guy, and he's such an inspiration.”
“They are such an inspiration, and those guys are still living in the limelight for something they did 20 years ago. I like to emphasize that underdog feeling, supporting each other, the team aspect.”
“This man has spent an hour and a half with me and he has inspired me more than people I've known my entire life.”
“If you think of how those women dressed, the kind of refinement, that kind of elegance. That's really the inspiration for these clothes.”
“This continent - that's where my inspiration comes from.”
“Idleness is an inlet to disorder, and makes way for licentiousness. People who
have nothing to do are quickly tired of their own company.”
“Life is a succession of moments, To live each one is to succeed.”
“He's a special person; he means a lot to this team. He's been very much an inspiration to this team. I think we're driven very much by trying to make this a special year for him.”
“With too much data, too many demands, and too much competition, is it any
wonder that people today are looking for ways to stop and smell the roses?”
“The bravest are surely those who have the clearest vision of what is before them, glory and danger alike, and yet notwithstanding, go out to meet it.”
“All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness: / That the man of God may be perfect, throughly furnished unto all good works.”
“When you think of somewhere really cold for inspiration, you eventually get to Russia.”
“When you reach for the stars you may not quite get one, but you won't come up with a handful of mud either.”
“Two heads are better than one, even if they are both cabbage.”
“Happiness, like unhappiness, is a proactive choice.”
“There's no scarcity of opportunity to make a living at what you love. There is
only a scarcity of resolve to make it happen.”
“True leaders are a threat to average leaders and managers because they rattle their cages!”
“Have less. Do less. Be more.”
“wealth of connections to art, poetry, music - the artists who have created out of inspiration from the Bible.”
“My life. The life I'm living that's where all my inspiration comes from. Real life experiences.”
“True leadership is the art of creating and clearly communicating your vision, hope, passion, inspiration and the journey you will take your team members on.”
“Sometimes it is best to take time to be quiet!”
“Man does not drift into goodness the chance port of an aimless voyage. He must
fight ever for his destination.”
“The best investment anyone can ever make is an investment in oneself!”
“Life's too short not to show your love or appreciation to someone or something!”
“Success won't just come to you. It has to be met at least halfway.”
“He's the guy who gets them going, ... I think they probably played even more inspired when he went down. They started losing guys on offense and defense, and we didn't take advantage.”
“True friendship is self-love at secondhand”
“You may feel like dwelling on your limits or your fears. Don't do it. A perfect
prescription for a squandered, unfulfilled life is to accommodate selfdefeating
feelings while undercutting your finest, most productive ones.”
“I think one of my main moments of inspiration was when I was about 5.”
“My fair one, let us swear an eternal friendship.”
“When you're taught to love everyone, to love your enemies, then what value does that place on love?”
“The very highest leader is barely known by men. Then come the leader they know
and love. Then the leader they fear. Then the leader they despise. The leader who
does not trust enough will not be trusted. When actions are performed without
unnecessary speech The people say, "We did it ourselves.”
“I think this is one of the most important pieces that I've ever done. I hope it will be inspirational and to some degree educational. I hate to say that because I don't want it to sound like Comparative Religion 101.”
“We should take inspiration from the sun and work constantly for the benefit of mankind,so that peace and prosperity prevails everywhere.”
“The excitement is inspiring. Everybody has this excitement and this energy on C.R. 17.”
“A master communicator can either set his audience free or imprison them.”
“Friendship is a word, the very sight of which in print makes the heart warm”
“Mysterious love, uncertain treasure, hast thou more of pain or pleasure! Endless torments dwell about thee: Yet who would live, and live without thee!”
“Remember this that very little is needed to make a happy life.”
“Unconditional love also includes loving your 'enemy'. You can do it.”
“Goal setting starts with a pad of paper, a pen and you.”
“The Lord is the Lover of His devotees; He inspires them to perform devotional worship. True devotional worship consists of eliminating selfishness and conceit from within.”
“Be happy. It's one way of being wise.”
“Along the journey we commonly forget its goal”
“Allow yourself to think only those thoughts that match your principles and can
bear the bright light of day. . . . Day by day, your choices, your thoughts, your
actions fashion the person you become. Your integrity determines your destiny.”
“It is not so much our friends' help that helps us as the confident knowledge that they will help us.”
“The sacrifices of friendship were beautiful in her eyes as long as she was not asked to make them.”
“We have been taught to believe that negative equals realistic and positive equals unrealistic.”
“Martin was inspirational during the autumn and we believe he is the man to lead England throughout the tournament.”
“Martin will be the captain for the Six Nations. He was inspirational during the autumn.”
“A woman is a grave where you bury your most precious part”
“If you're not just a little bit nervous before a match, you probably don't have the expectations of yourself that you should have.”
“So I go to the Open with the intention of hopefully bringing some inspiration to those who take a few hours out of their day to come watch me. That's what I look forward to.”
“Our bodies are our gardens... our wills are gardeners.”
“love is when you cant control it. No matter how much your try and tell yourself to stop, your heart wont let you”
“If thou covetest riches, ask not but for contentment, which is an immense treasure”
“It is quite exciting to see the inspirational spark that is produced in students when they talk to explorers living and working in space. The ARISS team of volunteers looks forward to working with Dr. Olsen and preparing the schools for this once in a lifetime event.”
“Tomorrow's life is too late. Live today.”
“A man can walk without shoes but shoes can't walk without a man”
“Rosa Parks was the inspiration... simply by the act of her being who she was, a sweet and loving and simple child of God who refused to let anybody or anything force her to compromise her spirit.”
“We are not troubled by things, but by the opinion which we have of things.”
“Smile, save people from grumpiness.”
“For every disciplined effort there is a multiple reward.”
“young people have always been the inspiration in our country to move things to a better place, so [they] need that passion, that energy, that idealism that young people bring to it -- so get out there and be part of it.”
“[Rather than waiting for inspiration, the artist started to find inspiration just by continually working her canvases. As her confidence grew, the panic she'd experienced when something wasn't perfect, abated.] It's like being cold in winter and you can't imagine that you'll ever be hot, or hot in summer, when you don't believe you'll ever be cold, ... Now I say, 'It's OK. You know this feeling.'”
“History teacher Mrs. (Eleanor) Glass inspired her to look beyond Michigan.”
“further the ideals that inspired Daniel's life and work.”
“We are continually faced by great opportunities brilliantly disguised as insoluble problems.”
“When meditation is mastered, the mind is unwavering like the flame of a lamp in a windless place.”
“KORAN, n. A book which the Mohammedans foolishly believe to have been written by divine inspiration, but which Christians know to be a wicked imposture, contradictory to the Holy Scriptures.”
“Life is my college. May I graduate well, and earn some honors!”
“Mes poumons sont remplis de l'air pur
mon esprit est ouvert et libéré, la sérénité remplit tous les
pores de mon âme, un sentiment de libération!”
“Our lives a series of defining moments,
strung together by passing time.
Surrender fully to this moment,
because it is not the moment itself that defines us,
but how we choose to live in it.”
“ANTIPATHY, n. The sentiment inspired by one's friend's friend.”
“The general tendency of things throughout the world is to render mediocrity the ascendant power among mankind”
“Faith without challenge is nothing.”
“IMBECILITY, n. A kind of divine inspiration, or sacred fire affecting censorious critics of this dictionary.”
“One must have to get wet and cross the river's troubled waters in order to get to the other side, where the wood that will keep him safe, sheltered and warm will be found...”
“Time is the greatest thief in life !”
“The true spirit of Christmas is love”
“He had a great game. His energy is boundless and he snaps into tackles. He is a brilliant inspiration and example to his team mates.”
“Sutherlin came out and played some inspired basketball tonight. They played with a lot of heart. We buckled down in the fourth and took care of the ball and turned up the defense.”
“You give your best not because you need to impress people. You give your best
because that's the only way to enjoy your work.”
“So there are no more words and all is ended The timbrel is stilled, the clarion laid away And love with streaming hair goes unattended Back to the loneliness of yesterday”
“The past should be a springboard not a hammock.
Irving Ball”
“Our business in life is not to get ahead of others, but to get ahead of ourselves”
“No one was born into this world empty; everyone has a talent therein. An activated talent =a fulfilled purpose, but a buried talent =an unfulfilled purpose.”
“It is not beauty that endears, it's love that makes us see beauty”
“One of the many things nobody ever tells you about middle age is that it's such a nice change from being young.”
“Leadership is the capacity and will to rally men and women to a common purpose
and the character which inspires confidence.”
“Friendship needs no words - it is solitude delivered from the anguish of loneliness.”
“Most people I ask little from. I try to give them much, and expect nothing in return and I do very well in the bargain.”
“Never, "for the sake of peace and quiet," deny your own experience or convictions”
“As long as a man stands in his own way, everything seems to be in his way.”
“He was a great inspiration to the players and coaches. On those days when he had to take chemo and radiation, he was at practice that day and sometimes the cumulative effects would cause him to miss the next day, but the time when he wasn't active in the program was minimal.”
“He sends them a letter expressing his appreciation to them for their inspiration, guidance and encouragement for him being at the academy. It is not a motivational ploy to try to get our football team excited to play our opponent. If you're not excited about playing Wyoming then you are brain dead.”
“If we are able to inspire people with our music, we can raise more funds.”
“We started backing up midnight to 2 o'clock in the morning, which suggests it was Asian-inspired.”
“If you can't sleep, then get up and do something instead of lying there worrying. It's the worry that gets you, not the lack of sleep.”
“Looking back, I have this to regret, that too often when I loved, I did not say so.
David Grayson”
“He was a great inspiration to the players and coaches, ... On those days when he had to take chemo and radiation, he was at practice that day and sometimes the cumulative effects would cause him to miss the next day, but the time when he wasn't active in the program was minimal.”
“You can get through life with bad manners, but it's easier with good manners.”
“Success comes from Within not Without”
“Don't walk in front of me, I may not follow. Don't walk behind me, I may not
lead. Walk beside me and be my friend.”
“But it is too soon to say from which group they came from, or who inspired them. It's likely they were involved in the earlier conflict and still possess the skills to make bombs.”
“I have yet to find the man, however exalted his station, who did not do better work and put forth greater effort under a spirit of approval than under a spirit of criticism.”
“The most beautiful discovery true friends make is that they can grow separately without growing apart.”
“Someone's opinion of you does not have to become your reality.”
“The way to get started is to quit talking and begin doing.”
“For some, true happiness is found in objects. For the rest, it is found in the happiness of others.”
“People are eternally divided into two classes, the believer, builder, and praiser,
and the unbeliever, destroyer and critic.”
“We made a couple changes, but it was just a matter of having nothing to lose. They're inspired and going for it. We just had to go out and be aggressive.”
“He's an inspiration on and off the floor, the way he carries himself. He's been a professional all year long. He's been (criticized), even though he's scoring 30-some points a night, people are still not satisfied. Because of it, he's prepared his team for the playoffs. I want to see what the kid is capable of.”
“Friendship is the only cement that will ever hold the world together.”
“A person who knows it all has alot to learn”
“You can't shake hands with a clenched fist.”
“Trust men and they will be true to you; treat them greatly and they will show themselves great”
“Friendship is certainly the finest balm for the pangs of disappointed love.”
“I can usually judge a fellow by what he laughs at.”
“He's never complained, and the fact he's never complained and said anything negative through this whole ordeal is inspiring.”
“People fail because they are trying hard to change the picture inside the mirror not what inside themselves, to be successful change what is WITHIN not what is WITHOUT.”
“You will be remembered by your deeds and not your wealth.”
“if grass can find a way to grown through the grass on footpaths, trust me, you can find a way to do anything.”
“He who has done his best for his own time has lived for all times.”
“An empowered life begins with serious personal questions about oneself. Those answers bare the seeds of success.”
“Doubt is the beginning, not the end, of wisdom.”
“To me, ... it's really about inspiration and motivation.”
“They give them to someone who has done something inspirational and beyond the call of duty.”
“I never really want to leave it as an inspiration; I just can't get enough of it.”
“Rosa Parks served as an inspiration to generations of African-Americans and all people of good will,”
“Hearing from the writers is very useful to apprentice writers. They gain inspiration and learn more about the craft. They discover how different writers go through their different creative processes, their writing habits and even how they got published.”
“Frank is such an inspiration. I just hope I can walk when I'm his age.”
“WE VALUE REACTIONS BUT VALUE IS CREATED BY OUR ACTIONS !”
“CREATIVITY AND NEGATIVITY CANNOT GO TOGETHER !”
“Prayer is inward communication with yourself. Action is outward conversation with God.”
“You know, I was looking at the value of money and found out it buys only quality products, but very seldom buys quality relationships”
“If you don’t know where you’re going – it doesn’t matter which road you choose”
“it is not neccessary to wear a mask when interacting with other people.
If you tell the truth even if it hurts, you get the feeling of living to the maximum of your expectations and it feels just great.”
“If you've got nothing to live for, why are you still here?”
“It is easier to live through someone else than to become complete yourself.”
“The more you seek security, the less of it you have. But the more you seek opportunity, the more likely it is that you will achieve the security that you desire.”
“If people spent more time focusing on their own issues, rather than those of others, we could cure the disease of Boredom.”
“If I speak to thee in friendship's name, thou think'st I speak too coldly, if I mention love's devoted flame, thou say'st I speak too boldly”
“If you deliberately plan on being less than you are capable of being, then I warn you that you'll be unhappy for the rest of your life.”
“One life stamps and influences another, which in turn stamps and influences
another, on and on, until the soul of human experience breathes on in generations
we'll never even meet.”
“Good attitudes are like fine China. They are nice to have, but pointless unless used.”
“Out of clutter find simplicity.
From Discord make harmony.
In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity.”
“Castro will never change, never. Our job is to provide inspiration and explosives to the Cuban people.”
“There is a significant market for inspirational entertainment. It can be seen in the crossover success of Christian music, The Passion of the Christ and the Left Behind Novel Series. The key to long-term success in this market is making AAA titles that rival the quality of best selling games out today. Our goal is to create enduring games that connect with people where they live and touch them with emotional, memorable and moving experiences.”
“A little twist to the usual, "Everything comes to he who waits". Everything
comes to him who hustles while he waits.”
“You need to recognize and sweep aside certain weaknesses which stand between
you and your goals. Your persistence develops into a respected, proved,
progressive power.”
“I was very inspired by him.”
“Our lives are a sum total of the choices we have made.”
“Friendship should be more than biting time can sever.”
“I was very inspired by him. He said he would come back and he did. I feel that he's embracing the minority community here. I buy what he says.”
“He is an inspiration to everyone with the way he looks after himself. My young players look up to him in the dressing room.”
“Get excited and enthusiastic about you own dream. This excitement is like a forest fire - you can smell it, taste it, and see it from a mile away.”
“The season of failure is the best time for sowing the seeds of success.”
“It's a great story. He's just an inspiration to all of us to keep working hard no matter what happens.”
“On the occasion of every accident that befalls you...inquire what power you have
for turning it to use.”
“If you surrender completely to the moments as they pass, you live more richly those moments.”
“There have been three guys I've been around who, personality-wise, have been the most inspirational,”
“I came back to the British Masters and started messing around with the belly-putter after being inspired by Vijay (Singh) at New Orleans, holing all those putts down the stretch,”
“I am one of those unhappy persons who inspire bores to the highest flights of art”
“Rosa Parks served as an inspiration to generations of African-Americans and all people of good will. More than an icon, Mrs. Parks is symbolic of the thousands of courageous NAACP workers who fight for civil rights in their communities.”
“Man must cease attributing his problems to his environment and learn again to
exercise...his personal responsibility in the realm of faith and morals.”
“Discipline is based on pride, on meticulous attention to details, and on mutual respect and confidence. Discipline must be a habit so ingrained that it is stronger than the excitement of the goal or the fear of failure.”
“Our coaches took care of me for four years. They pushed me hard and inspired me to be the best I could to get to this level.”
“It is astonishing what force, purity, and wisdom it requires for a human being to keep clear of falsehoods.”
“In this world it is not what we take up, but what we give up, that makes us rich”
“My brother's an inspiration to me. He dedicated himself like he was a monk at a monastery. He has shown that no matter what happens, if you keep your attitude positive there's nothing you can't accomplish.”
“It gave us inspiration and hope.”
“He is a wise man who does not grieve for the things which he has not, but rejoices for those which he has.”
“We are told that talent creates its own opportunities. But it sometimes seems that
intense desire creates not only its own opportunities, but its own talents.”
“It was truly an amazing sight and an inspiration for our work in the lab.”
“Accept that all of us can be hurt, that all of us can and surely will at times fail. I
think we should follow a simple rule: if we can take the worst, take the risk.”
“Innovation is not the product of logical thought, even though the final product is tied to a logical structure.”
“The smallest bookstore still contains more ideas of worth than have been presented in the entire history of television.”
“Michael Jackson is an inspiration and we are approaching him,”
“It was kind of an inspiration to see Vernell make that play, because of everything he's been through. I know I was jumping up and down on the sideline. It was kind of embarrassing not to win a bowl game, so this game was really big for us.”
“The smallest bookstore still contains more ideas of worth than have been
presented in the entire history of television."
Andrew Ross”
“Life cannot defeat a writer who is in love with writing; for life itself is a writer's love until death.”
“Being an optimist after you've got everything you want doesn't count.”
“Do not sit long with a sad friend. When you go to a garden do you look at the
weeds? Spend more time with the roses and jasmines.”
“Through zeal knowledge is gotten, through lack of zeal knowledge is lost.”
“She was an inspiration for this team. We all saw how hard she worked to get back, her determination. It helped the other players work harder.”
“They're truly my inspiration. They know I'm actively involved in the community and they give me that extra push.”
“The moment of victory is much too short to live for that and nothing else.”
“No pessimist ever discovered the secrets of the stars, or sailed to an uncharted
land, or opened a new heaven to the human spirit.”
“They were such an inspiration; Katie always did what she wanted. She was the wanderer and swimmer. Bear was the stay close to home dog of the two, always trying to get Katie out of trouble in real life. If Katie was doing something wrong, Bear would go bring her home. When Bear passed away, Katie was never the same. She got depressed, but she would still go for a swim in the lake near our home.”
“Winners make a habit of manufacturing their own positive expectations in advance of the event.”
“Each golden sunrise ushers in new opportunities for those who retain faith in
themselves, and keep their chins up... Meet the sunrise with confidence. Fill every
golden minute with right thinking and worthwhile endeavor. Do this and there
will be joy for you in each golden sunser.”
“By the week's end, participants have learned what it means to be an American citizen. They've been inspired by individuals who have overcome challenges. Often times they've also formed long-lasting friendships with peers from across the state.”
“Mother Teresa devoted her life to the poor and her spirit will live on as an inspiration to all of us.”
“We are more inspired by people combing their hair, yuppies trying really hard to dance and the intelligence of birds, among other things.”
“They were awesome. I'm not going to come up with any excuses. They played very inspirational hockey tonight.”
“My inspiration came from my desire to educate our children on the politics of the Iraq war in a light-hearted fashion.”
“Force always attracts men of low morality, and I believe it to be an invariable rule that tyrants of genius are succeeded by scoundrels.”
“Wise people, even though all laws were abolished, would still lead the same life.”
“Anybody can get anything, anytime, anywhere, ... unique and inspirational.”
“The wisest person is not the one who has the fewest failures but the one who turns failures to best account.”
“Learning how to set and achieve a goal is perhaps the single most important
thing your child can learn to prepare for school, adulthood, and employment. The
more adept your child is at understanding this important life skill, the more
options he or she will have.”
“Emotions in this country right now are running very high. Sometimes that emotion is translated into inspiration, sometimes into criticism. We've heard some of that tonight. But it's still part of the American way of life.”
“It's been so long since I've been around something from somebody else that's inspired me. For the last 20 years, it's been up to me to inspire me.”
“The business schools reward difficult complex behavior more than simple behavior, but simple behavior is more effective.”
“Everything you need to survive in this world lives right inside you, you just have to be still for a minute”
“Everything you need you already have. You are complete right now, you are a whole, total person, not an apprentice person on the way to someplace else. Your completeness must be understood by you and experienced in your thoughts as your own personal reality.”
“Any thought that is passed on to the subconscious often enough and convincingly enough is finally accepted.”
“The most precious gift we can offer others is our presence. When mindfulness embraces those we love, they will bloom like flowers.”
“They are happy men whose natures sort with their vocations.”
“She should be an inspiration to everybody. She is just an amazing adult.”
“Spears provides inspiration for those struggling with the right choice.”
“Value is not intrinsic; it is not in things. It is within us; it is the way in which
man reacts to the conditions of his environment.”
“So, fall asleep love, loved by me...for I know love, I am loved by thee.”
“Man's real life is happy, chiefly because he is ever expectiing that it soon will be
so.”
“it is easy to fall but it is hard to ask someone to catch you..”
“i had my first hot flash yesterday and was told by a good friend that Merlot and coffee help....well.....menopause may not be that bad after all!”
“If ever there is tomorrow when we're not together.. there is something you must always remember. you are braver than you believe, stronger than you seem, and smarter than you think. but the most important thing is, even if we're apart.. i'll always be with you.”
“The greedy man is incontent with a whole world set before him.”
“The question is not whether we will be extremists, but what kind of extremists we will be... The nation and the world are in dire need of creative extremists.”
“The mind, ever the willing servant, will respond to boldness, for boldness, in effect, is a command to deliver mental resources”
“He keeps getting better with age. He's an inspiration for all of us.”
“Teaching kids how they can create their futures is a powerful and critical
character building attribute. Goals education gives them the tools needed for
designing a productive life, of benefit to themselves, our country and for future
generations.”
“Hope is the first thing to take some sort of action.”
“He talks to me every game. It always fires me up. It's so inspirational to have him talk to you. When he talks to you, you know you have to do what he says.”
“We are excited to welcome Greg home and congratulate him on this successful private mission. He has been an inspiration to me and I'm sure that his message of 'never give up hope' will inspire millions of others to follow their dreams.”
“I wouldn't really say it's like a burden. It's more of something that inspires.”
“The inspiration for this program was a bit of outrage, that students were graduating in the State of New Jersey not having seen Shakespeare performed live.”
“Yes, there are times when something is legitimately not our fault. Blaming others, however, keeps us in a stuck state and is ultimately rough on our own self-esteem.”
“We can react negatively to the demands made on us or we can choose to live
abundantly, to transform the negative into the meaningful. Attitude is all. If I do
not endow my life and my work with meaning, no one will ever be able to do it
for me.”
“It was a very emotional dinner, ... Everyone shared personal stories about her and gave her words of encouragement and inspiration. Everyone tried to remain positive.”
“If your desk isn't cluttered, you probably aren't doing your job.”
“Dreaming is the best gift given to men for with it reality is born”
“When you say that you agree to a thing in principle you mean that you have not
the slightest intention of carrying it out in practice.”
“[The survivors] are such an inspiration to all of us after what they've been through and I just really think it's important for us to carry on the legacy.”
“You must do the things you think you cannot do.”
“You gain strength, courage, and confidence by every experience in which you really stop to look fear in the face… do the thing you think you cannot do.”
“To keep our faces toward change and behave like free spirits in the presence of fate is strength undefeatable”
“Whatever you attempt, go at it with spirit. Put some in!”
“Accept the challenges, so you may feel the exhilaration of victory.”
“We came back inspired,”
“After touring with David Bowie last year, I was inspired to look at what I wanted to do as an artist, and I realized I wanted to go back to the music I fell in love with when I was eight years old.”
“Americans do feel very connected to a wide- scale disaster like this, and they're inspired to do something.”
“Most men pursue pleasure with such breathless haste that they hurry past it.”
“True leadership must be for the benefit of the followers, not the enrichment of the leaders.”
“This is an inspiration to me. It will motivate me to continue the work I've been doing for so long. I'm working to make my community better. All of my work is volunteer work.”
“love is when that special someones hands reach into your heart and cradle it with warmth...”
“In the matters of hope, it helps to know how to make a mountain of a mole-hill.”
“Where there is great love, there are always miracles.”
“The good lord looked out for me ever since, ... I've become an inspiration to my family, and was only the second member of my family to graduate high school, and the first to go to college.”
“Go confidently in the direction of your dreams. Live the life you have imagined.”
“What greater gift than the love of a cat?”
“No trumpets sound when the important decisions of our life are made. Destiny is made known silently.”
“Life is an Amazing, Hard, Wonderful and Terrible Thing and we never come out of it alive .. so live it!”
“Meeting you is Fate...Becoming your friend is a choice...But falling in love with you - is beyond anyone's control.”
“If we had a countdown timer on our lives, we wouldn't waste a minute.”
“[Golden West] did an inspired job tonight. They're a good team. They only have four losses, but they have come against some good teams.”
“Coleen is an inspiration - she has proved you can look so good and healthy.”
“I didn't really have any. I think that's why I feel so weird or feel so surprised at this inspirational role model. I never had anybody that I was in awe of. I don't know why. My dad had a friend, Stan Fox, who used to race Indy cars. I remember having his picture on the (bedroom) wall because I knew him, not because I felt like he was my role model.”
“I felt inspired to do it.”
“My inspiration for Baker Tonys Pizza came from my desire to educate our children on the politics of the Iraq war in a light-hearted fashion.”
“The only true gift you can give anyone
Is the ...'REAL YOU'.”
“When we complain, we remain. When we whine, we stay behind. When we
praise, we raise.”
“We won over Toyota the hard way. The players were inspired and motivated with the arrival of Eman, but Reyes also stepped up.”
“Life does not require us to make good; it asks only that we give our best at each
level of experience.”
“What keeps so many people back is simply unwillingness to pay the price, to
make the exertion, the effort to sacrifice their ease and comfort.”
“Martha's been very helpful for inspiration.”
“She's been an inspiration to all of us. We were really crossing our fingers hoping that she would get it.”
“We tend to get what we expect.”
“I've never been poor, only broke. Being poor is a frame of mind. Being broke is only a temporary situation.”
“I think not only myself, but I think the whole team has just learned that it's been so inspirational, the fact that she's never felt bad about herself and has brought that positive outlook. I think as a team, and me as a coach, you just learned that you never take things for granted and cherish what you have.”
“We are recorders and reporters of the facts-not judges of the behavior we describe.”
““When your inner spirit of love attaches itself to the outer spirit of friendship, a relationship is formed. Recognize that when you decline to reach out to others, you have lost an enormous chance to make a difference in someone’s life: perhaps even your own. Conquer those anxieties and challenges you are facing, and when you do, look up, because the stars in the heavens will be rejoicing.””
“All glory comes from daring to begin.”
“Obviously, she's been a huge inspiration to the team because we all knew and thought coming out of high school she would be in a different kind of situation being able to contribute and be a part of the program, as far as being on the court. After the accident, and the rehabilitation she had to go through, I think the players really saw her continue to make progress over the years. She never quit, she never felt bad for herself.”
“The artwork provides inspiration. It provides hope and also gives meaning. It makes sense out of things, and Dr. Hallett knows about the power of art.”
“The actions of men are the best interpreters of their thoughts.”
“One of the largest influences on human beings is the people with whom you spend your time. Find a group of winners; people who celebrate success and will help you to achieve the life you desire.”
“Change does not necessarily assure progress, but progress implacably requires
change. Education is essential to change, for education creates both new wants
and the ability to satisfy them.”
“A powerful, life changing concept. Well done in every way! As you get clear
about yourself, the whole world will become clear around you.”
“You can look at a picture for a week an never think of it again. You can also look at a picture for a second and think of it all your life.”
“Doreene Clement has created the best Journal. This is my fourth year using it and
I love remembering the good times.”
“If the script is telling the story well, that is your inspiration, and you do not need to go somewhere else.”
“Not your fears. Your preservations.”
“Being Normal is over rated”
“I'm really impressed by the community response and letters about how impressed people are about the project. It's truly inspirational.”
“Success is never final and failure never fatal. It's courage that counts.”
“It is a recession when your neighbor has lost his job. It is a depression when you have lost yours”
“Be more concerned with your character than with your reputation. Your
character is what you really are, while your reputation is merely what others think
you are.”
“Whoever it was that stole my bag — you were the inspiration for my imagination.”
“The president has said that Lance is an incredible inspiration to people from all walks of life, that he's a true American champion, so I think they'll enjoy their visit on Saturday.”
“He is one of my inspirations to keep working hard. He is extremely talented, but he has fallen on some tough times. I think about him a lot when I play.”
“When we bend and stretch, reach for the stars, we may find that the stars we are
reaching for exist within us, waiting to illumine a deeper insight and greater
awareness, to shine into our lives, our environment, and into the lives of others.
Each of us has purpose and a mission that only we can fulfill right where we are.”
“The life that conquers is the life that moves with a steady resolution and
persistence toward a predetermined goal. Those who succeed are those who have
thoroughly learned the immense importance of planning in life, and the tragic
brevity of time”
“I think inspiration was at its peak tonight just based on being down 0-3 and knowing that we could be doing a lot better.”
“When a mans in trouble, He shouldnt dig a hole and hide, he should dig a hole and hide his troubles”
“If you are only dreaming when you are asleep, you are not truly dreaming.”
“In the long run, we shape our lives, and we shape ourselves. The process never
ends until we die. And the choices we make are ultimately our responsibility.”
“I think it was a powerful move. It was very inspirational. To be able to sit and look out on the court, it was awesome.”
“The human spirit needs to accomplish, to achieve, to triumph to be happy.”
“Trials, temptations, disappointments all these are helps instead of hindrances, if
one uses them rightly. They not only test the fiber of a character, but strengthen it.
Every conquered temptation represents a new fund of moral energy. Every trial
endured and weathered in the right spirit makes a soul nobler and stronger than it
was before.”
“Heroic stories and images motivate people. Our Everest ascent for the cause of peace will provide the world with inspirational stories, images and videos that portray courage, friendship and teamwork.”
“In life, as in chess, forethought wins.”
“Every day we wake up to a world of challenges. Many will face what appear to be monumental issues. However, if all it takes to resolve them is money they're not really an issue.”
“Great minds have purposes; others have wishes.”
“Thank goodness for Rachel Ashwell and shabby chic -- that's our inspiration.”
“Arthur has always inspired us with his dedication to work and his loyalty to the agency. Arthur -- the man a legend -- will always remain in our hearts and memories.”
“One must have the adventurous daring to accept oneself as a bundle of
possibilities and undertake the most interesting game in the world making the
most of one's best.”
“Any person capable of angering you becomes your master; he can anger you
only when you permit yourself to be disturbed by him.”
“The development of American players has been a big part (of MLS). Without a league, there's no inspiration or opportunity.”
“A man's own self is his friend. A man's own self is his foe.”
“The key to why things change is the key to everything.”
“The development of American players has been a big part (of MLS), ... Without a league, there's no inspiration or opportunity.”
“Henry Wade did inspire a lot of young lawyers.”
“Walk away from all whom have the opportunity to make you a priority in their life and yet choose to opt out; life is too short.”
“What is, is”
“Society is joint action and cooperation in which each participant sees the other
partner's success as a means for the attainment of his own.”
“Wisdom is a shelter as money is a shelter, but the advantage of knowledge is
this: that wisdom preserves the life of its possessor.”
“If your vote is your voice for change, then your letter is your pleading for reform. We must unite as one, on one day, in a manifestation of passive resistance. Mail a letter to your president February 12, 2009 and request a change in the immigration system as it stands today and reform of the current immigration laws.”
“We can chart our future clearly and wisely only when we know the path which has led to the present.”
“When I was a cook and 24 years old... I read the kinds of books that were the inspiration to understanding the value of simplicity in cooking.”
“I should be so lucky. I'd be very, very proud if it inspired them to have their own voice.”
“She tore the ACL in January, and was back in the team camp in June. That was an inspiration to the other girls and gave them a lot of confidence.”
“He's been a real inspiration to both of us.”
“Nothing is particularly hard if you divide it into small jobs."
Henry Ford”
“Knowing that you have complete control of your thinking you will recognize the
power…”
“There's a definite inspiration from the art of Mondrian, Kandinsky and Rothko. This translates nicely into upbeat colors and shapes.”
“Unswerving loyalty to duty, constant devotion to truth, and a clear conscience
will overcome every discouragement and surely lead the way to usefulness and
high achievement.”
“A great heart is able to take a step aside, to let another one grow”
“The soul is dyed the color of its thoughts. Think only on those things that are in
line with your principles and can bear the light of day. The content of your
character is your choice. Day by day, what you choose, what you think, and what
you do is who you become. Your integrity is your destiny ... it is the light that
guides your way.”
“We reflect on the last shuttle mission , the great ship Columbia and her inspiring crew”
“Don't ask for tomorrow if you're not even grateful for today.”
“What if heaven or hell have nothing to do with circumstances bestowed upon you and everything with the state of mind you cultivate within you, how would you say you create your own heaven or hell?”
“I simply choose to do what others choose not to.”
“I will walk with you through the rain.”
“allowing
to be
everything that is
me”
“When love is gone, there's always justice. And when justice is gone, there's always force. And when force is gone, there's always Mom. Hi, Mom!”
“It is not so much what you believe in that matters, it's more the way in which you
believe it and proceed to translate that belief into action.”
“Whoever discovers a cure for estrogen poisoning will earn a fortune, as well as the gratitude of half the people in the world.”
“The ultimate commitment to another is knowing you can stay true with the unknown of what you can be.”
“If you want to get the best conversation with people, then talk to them about themselves.”
“Something you do with all your soul and with bliss, is already an achievement in itself. It doesn’t need to produce any results. It exists purely and only for the pleasure of creating. Furthermore nothing. And that is everyting. EVERYTHING.”
“The question: who are you really? Is a question wich can’t be answered. Who you really are is something you can’t wrap your mind around. You’re not who you think you are! This is merely a thought, an assumption, a belief about yourself. Who you really are, in essence is a mystery that only can reveal itself, when given space. Who you are is so much bigger than your thinking mind can grasp. Who you think you are is not even a fraction of the grandeur, beauty and scope of your true being”
“He's an energetic and enthusiastic guy and that's been very infectious. Plus, everybody loves the guy so much, how can you let Pinball down?
"You just don't.”
“Damon was in the zone. I was talking with the other linemen and we saw it in Damon's eyes. We said, 'Number 9 is in the zone.' Man, was he on and it couldn't come at a better time.
"He's been in the league for 20 years. You know when he's on and when he's not on by his eyes, his body language, his play calling.
"It was contagious. He's not just the MVP of this game. He's the MVP of this league, hands down.”
“You are not what you earn. You are what you save!”
“Our Destiny is defined by the environment that surround us But not for me, for I am breaking through the chains of mine.”
“PIPPIN: I didn't think it would end this way.
GANDALF: End? No, the journey doesn't end here. Death is just another path, one that we all must take. The grey rain-curtain of this world rolls back, and all turns to silver glass, and then you see it.
PIPPIN: What? Gandalf? See what?
GANDALF: White shores, and beyond, a far green country under a swift sunrise.
PIPPIN: Well, that isn't so bad.
GANDALF: No. No, it isn't.”
“I've never believed in finding something perfect, but quite frankly, I think I have found the gold. Maybe my ego is too high and I'm going nuts, but I got my hopes pretty high right now and it's new ground for me. Do I explore it or do I just sit? Whatever the outcome, I think I have hope and that in turn is all man needs. Hope.”
“If you were smart in 1807 you moved to London, if you were smart in 1907 you moved to New York City, and if you are smart in 2007 you move to Asia.”
“There are many life journeys we all must take but we do not need to walk any of these bright or dark roads alone.”
“Be excellent in your attitude today family, we have a clean slate to paint on. Be bold in your color choices, your life’s canvas will be seen by many.”
“Nothing is perfect, save for imperfection. Reaching for true perfection is an off hand illusion. Only when we strive for these goals that don't exist do we grow weary and tepid. Now happiness on the other hand? That can be done.”
“Perfection is the enemy of progress.”
“Love and money is equivalent to oil and water.”
“Out of reach you are, a fairytale memoir. A dream so far, now only a scar.”
“An organized system will defeat chaos, perhaps not every time, but with measurable regularity.”
“That which makes us DIFFERENT, will make a DIFFERENCE in the world some day. Be Yourself.”
“In Life there should be no regrets, annd if u ever feeL like u haave even one, remember thaT everything happens for a reason and not even regret can change the past.”
“To survive, we must find serenity in our hard to endure moments, and have faith in better tomorrows.”
“Love is being hurt but forgiving, staying by their side when there is nothing left to stand for, love is knowing no matter what is said next they will make you smile.”
“Be changless, but ever changing. changless in your goals of life, but ever changing in how you achieve them.”
“We walk amogst you, roll beside you eveyday of your lives. we're husbands & fathers & brothers & sons, just trying like you.. to servive. In Ironclad monsters of steel we roll. chasing that dream, that sunset, that Load. remember when you pass us that we're are people too, we are the knights of the road, show us respect & we'll respect you.”
“If you haven't found someone that you are willing to give everything to that person unconditionally;
without having any expectations to get back something in return,then you has not completely fallen in love yet.”
“Some people are not ignorant,
they just chose not to know too much.”
“Perception is Reality and Reality is Perception”
“In order to gain great Power one must have the Courage and Wisdom to obtain it.”
“In a Fight its not about how strong you are, its about how weak the enemy is.”
“People are the sender and you're the receiver, so only you can empower or discourage what they said.”
“Happiness isn't gained by achieving, its gained by believing”
“You complain and cry as the days go by. You work for paychecks rather than fly. Your dirt-nap draws closer, almost time to lie. Start LIVING THE DREAM, before you die.”
“One nation we stand. Our sacrifice so grand. We extend our hand. Love is the brand. LIVING THE DREAM FOUNDATION”
“We feed each other love; that is how we survive.”
“The one who dies with the largest family wins. LIVING THE DREAM FOUNDATION.”
“A hero you are, through and though; your inspiration to me, is true and true. I wish a life here, of nirvana for you; a life of love, mirroring Heavens venue.”
“I don't know if I have met a true genius. I do know that if I have met a genius, that they were never successful without hard work”
“I have never understood the concept of over achievement”
“There will always be "petty tyrants" who are more interested in what time you came to work than what you did while you were there." "And, you will not find them after 5 p.m. to bother you”
“Do not let others determine your value”
“Do not depend on an institution for your own happiness”
“Your natural rights shouldn't be favors you owe to anyone!”
“Who is the most important person in the world? The doctor when you are sick; the President of United States during a missile crisis and the pizza delivery boy when you are very hungry”
“When one lives without fear, one cannot be broken.”
“Don't send a boy to do a man's job”
“**¨¨*¨let the ¨magic of divine¨.¸¸. roll over your¨¨ shoulders¨*¨¨gently pour the waves of ¨paradise over.¨*¨pure and unborn¨sunstream will engulf you ¨*with the ¨voices of majestic¨bliss¨*.¸¸.dream on*¨¨ ..”
“If you know your gona' to go down, then you'd best be going down swinging.”
“While heaven's breathing spells,
unshelter a rapturing cloud,
laud sound of messanger's bells,
will make you strong & proud.
The ocean of future's will,
overlooks redemption of past,
comes back here to thrill,
The cause of all meant to last.
Walk on the road of truth,
As Bliss is opening gates,
to carefree roleplay of youth,
to enchanted & magnificent days.”
“Path to Success: Determine where you are and the plan you have to change it. Then the wise succeed in accomplishing it by obtaining accountability from ones wiser then themselves. Conversely the path of a fool is to determine where you are and the plan to hide it from the ones wise enough to hold you accountable to change it.”
“The keys to success are simple: Plan, Prepare, Pray, and Pursue. Plan for success, Prepare for success, Pray for success, and always Pursue success. No matter the outcome, you will find success!”
“Your thoughts only tell you what you want, but your actions tell you what you get.”
“Undying love is more powerful than life; it lives beyond death.”
“Remember, you are where you're supposed to be at any given point and time of the day. The people around you are supposed to be there for a reason. You may not know what that reason is, but the universe will let you know in due time. When you ask for something and it is given, it doesn't always present itself as you expect it to! Instead of dismissing the people around you, recognize why they are there.”
“Wisdom only comes to those that are willing to search for it and learn from their experiences.”
“Don't be discouraged, because every wrong attempt discarded is another step forward.”
“Walking a labyrinth is one step closer to your Truth.”
“a origanal is always better than a copy”
“A friend is a gift you give yourself.”
“LIVING THE DREAM will set you free.”
“There is nothing worse than apathy.”
“The dolt is not a hindrance. The greatest hindrance in life is dolt and sloth.”
“We can lose everything, but self-confidence.”
“Change is the heartbeat of growth.”
“Move with the move, move the move, be the move and look back only if it moves you to move. ~Lana Radovic”
“There are two kinds of people in this world, those that watch things happen, and those that make things happen. Who do you want to be?”
“Riddle of the Sphinx - Mind of man above the animal(beast) instinct of man.
The intellect over emotions is a raising of one's self to adulthood.”
“I am not a victim. No matter what I have been through, I'm still here. I have a history of victory.”
“No matter what the cause, God is only as willing as you are.”
“I promise you nothing is as chaotic as it seems. Nothing is worth your health. Nothing is worth poisoning yourself into stress, anxiety, and fear.”
“Life is like a bed of roses, so much is beautiful, but be mindful of the thorns.”
“We are all traveller's in this World.
Our life long Friend's are found on empty road's.
Whilst we walk alone seeking our destination in life.”
“Make a pact with yourself today to not be defined by your past. Instead, shake things up today! Live through today. Don’t just exist through it - LIVE through it!”
“Without Trust, Communication and Honesty in any relationship - There is nothing to build upon...”
“Harness the power of today. Seize the blessings of today! Make something happen, enhance your life, make someone laugh, help a friend, love, love, love!”
“The things we truly love stay with us always, locked in our hearts as long as life remains.”
“If I could have any super power that I wanted, I would choose to be able to understand a womans mind”
“Do we really learn from our mistakes, or do we enjoy the pain that we cause and are caused...”
“Aspire your disposition to believe in miracles; allow visions of hope and triumph to be your motivating factor.”
“Workplace is a fair preview of what your marriage could look like. The culture of the company, dynamics and the treatment you get in many ways resembles your in-laws, their culture and the way they would treat you. So choose your "company" wisely!”
“Your life is your message. Make it inspiring.”
“In the matters of hope, it helps to know how to make a mountain of a mole-hill.”
““Not everyday we can be happy, otherwise we would never be sad.””
“Give the people --- confidence.
Give the people --- delight.
Give the people --- hope.
Give the people --- the best.”
“When certain coldness strikes, the heart becomes the most beautiful piece of ice.”
“When we truly open our eyes and look around...we see everything has heart and love as its foundation.”
“You can engage in activities and ways of being that are manly, yet show your creative and intuitive side without losing yourself. By honoring your creativity, you will actually be happier, more energetic, balanced and whole.”
“There's always a miracle mystery behind strange things in this world, some may be for good and some may be for bad but it's you in the end to decide which to receive and let in as a part of your life.”
“To contribute to the world in your own way, live a life that inspires other to live their lives in their own way, too.”
“A divine destiny starts with taking your life into your own hands; caution against allowing individuals whom do not value your self-worth, to direct your fate.”
“If you teach a man anything, he will never learn”
“In life, events change us. They define us. They leave scars to remind us of that time in our lives. The scars will never go away, nor begin to fade. They'll be there forever, whether we like them or not. And we'll look at them everyday, and... everyday they will remind us of our strength, of the power we have within ourself to maybe not be able to get over something- but be able to get through it.”
“Where there is no commitment, there is no success.”
“I can be inspirational..i can be depressing..i can be extremely selfish..i can be extremely selfless..i can be the happiest person you know..i can be the most down person you know..i could be your everything..but i could never be your nothing.”
“I am lost in love. I have lost in love. But both have only strengthened my quest for love, and the need to be in love.”
“I am so great people who did'nt want tuh know meh, had to know meh.”
“Yuh could be nice, but you can never be too nice.”
“He laurelled me one day,
With a poem everlasting;
A Spring Kiss sweet and lasting.”
“The Present Cant block out the past, Only a new past can block out the old”
“Some "humans" need to evolve into animals first as the highest form of their "saintship" if they aspire to sainthood but have never put much effort into becoming really human in the first place- my apologies to all wonderful animals that may feel degraded by being compared to the "humans" - animals, who still have much more humanity in them than the "humans".”
“What ever the mind of man can conceive and believe, it can achieve.”
“Far and away the best prize that life has to offer is the chance to work hard at work worth doing.”
“It's better late than never, but being late is always better.”
“Inquire today concerning what you want, need or feel you deserve; if you don’t ask, you won’t get an answer.”
“Whoever undertakes to set himself up as a judge of Truth and Knowledge is shipwrecked by the laughter of the gods.”
“You learn to speak by speaking, to study by studying, to run by running, to work by working; in just the same way, you learn to love by loving.”
“My life is perfect as it is. Until I wake tomorrow and a whole new day redefines perfection. I'm always exactly where I'm suppose to be”
“Love is the most powerful tool one can use to overcome adversity; fear introduces you to new pastures.”
“You know the great thing about life I feel...is that if your really consciously choose to...you can do or create pretty much anything you want. Life is basically one big blank chalkboard. But the problem as I see it...is that not enough people are picking up a piece of chalk and creating their story in their own words. They are letting others do it for them.”
“The greatest thing you'll ever learn it's just to love and be loved in return.”
“Our lives are changed by surrounding ourselves with people who are changing their lives.”
“We live in yesterday's "impossible".”
“Make no small plans for they have not the power to stir men’s blood.”
“love life, engage in it, give it all you've got. love it with a passion, because life truly does give back, many times over, what you put into it”
“Perfection does not exist in anything but we can always make the one we love perfect.”
“It always seems that people want to be someone or something BETTER than who they are...rather than being thankful for the small miracles that make each day a blessing. I am happy knowing that I am who I am, and no one can change that. If I've made even the smallest impact on someone's life... I feel I have succeeded. That's what makes me WHO I am... and I'm okay with that. ;-)”
“Sometimes the best way to find the truth is to create a fiction.”
“Speaking of life, we are after all on our way back,
aren’t we??”
“Be inspired by things in life that are beautiful and good.”
“Then you should have died! Died, rather than betray your friends, as we would have done for you!”
“They say when a door closes, a window opens...well, then I like to climb through that window and find out who the heck closed my door and why??”
“Faith will get us through today; trust and you shall overcome.”
“Find true love and you shall find victory.”
“And so it begins.”
“So true a fool is love that in your will,
Though you do anything, he thinks no ill.”
“There are things in life that we all take for granted.
Like our family, friends, food, shelter, and love.
We don't have a clue until our lives are abandoned.
Just make sure to give thanks to the creator above.
The seed of life grows, with no proof that it was planted.
Satan tried to tear it up, but it wouldn't budge.
The roots were tightly placed in Gods right hand and.
Satan was furious only left with a grudge.”
“One day, your gonna be all youve got left, so why change who you are for those you are not.”
“Our thoughts, getting converted into causes and actions, define our world. Let's say Yes to positive thinking, shall we?”
“No, it's not your school or your skin color, dude. It's what you are and what you're capable of.”
“Remember, you are your own best friend, so you'd better take care of yourself first”
“Life is like a crystal ball of fortune. When it falls into pieces, the people try to grab it. Someone grabs it more, someone grabs it less, someone grabs it none. And how much have you grabbed yet ?”
“Life is like a taste of honey, sour, bitter, spicy, salty.
Hope you can taste the honey one day....... SOON !”
“He who is overly attached to his family members experiences fear and sorrow, for the root of all grief is attachment. Thus one should discard attachment to be happy.”
“You're not breaking me, You're making me”
“The best way to live life to the fullest is to be a child.”
“You know your in love when ... All you can think about is that one special person. You can't stand to be away from them for more then 1 sec...You miss them even though they're standing right next to you... You fall asleep thinking about them. You dream about them every night. They are your inspiration. They fullfill your body, mind and soul. Your feelings for each other are unconditinaly and none judgemental.”
“Beloved, all that is harsh and difficult I want for myself, and all that is gentle and sweet for thee”
“Love Is When You Look Into Someone's Eyes And See Everything You Need.”
“Love Is When You Look Into Someone's Eyes And See Everything You Need.”
“There is only one terminal dignity - love.”
“If we would build on a sure foundation in friendship, we must love friends for their sake rather than for our own.”
“Evolve' Don't 'Revolve”
“If you can't have a laugh, what's life about?”
“Love works a different way in different minds, the fool it enlightens and the wise it blinds.”
“I did not direct my life. I didn't design it. I never made decisions. Things always came up and made them for me. That's what life is.”
“Always keep one foot in the past, your head in the present, and your eyes to the future.”
“Anugerah terkadang membuat lupa. Yang biasanya makan lauk garam maunya makan lauk ikan. Kepada Tuhan semua akan kembali.”
“Nothing is more highly to be prized than the value of each day”
“O what a heaven is love! O what a hell!”
“When you can be your own best audience and when your applause is the best applause you know of, you’re in good shape.”
“You are half way there, if you believe in your dreams.”
“Sri Lanka is our country. Our culture, our race, our people. Sometimes we forget this, forget that greatness can also be achieved in our Motherland. Our Motherland, what it means to us and how we can make it better. We chase that elusive dream, the white picket fenced house, which is not ours, some white-man in the west goes to sleep and wakes up thinking about it. And we foolishly dream his dream. When can we ever shred the noose of our colonial masters?”
“Bukanlah orang pintar yang tidak pernah gagal sama sekali, tetapi orang bijak tidak akan jatuh di lobang yang sama dua kali.”
“Fly free! BE THE NEXT GALILEO . . . Don’t let today's scientific knowledge tie your feet to the ground. It is your right to seek out reality by developing eyesight and flying capacity better than that of an eagle.”
“If happiness could be bought, the rich would be the happiest without anyone of them committing suicide. So do what you have to do but, hey, stay light.”
“Only individuals, and a small number of them at that, can be carried away by an abstract and "pure" idea. The millions, the masses, not only of the proletariat but also of the enlightened and privileged classes, are carried away only by the power and logic of "facts".”
“Getting the most out of life is giving life your most.”
“When love is your greatest weakness, you will be the strongest person in the world.”
“The call of death is a call of love. Death can be sweet if we answer it in the affirmative, if we accept it as one of the great eternal forms of life and transformation.”
“It's amazing what the body can adapt to & the spirit can endure, when to adapt & endure are the only choices you have.”
“The difference between A Closed Door & An Opportunity, is your Perception. (Â)”
“We all at certain times in our lives find ourselves broken. True strength is found in picking up the pieces.”
“the true shadow is not made by darkness but of light.”
“When I think of a mother I think of someone who nurtures you to become a person of intergrity ,responsible, who comforts you , and brings out the best of who you are so one day you see all the beautiful things about yourself that she always did!”
“Maturity bores me.”
“Sometimes a significant truth is found in a simple sentence.”
“An infinitesimal illumination is most valuable in the darkest room.”
“In my book Trust and Respect is vital to any healthy friendship no matter male or female. Once broken it can never be truly put back together as it once was. Treat others the way you want to be treated.”
“There may be a great fire in our soul, yet no one ever comes to warm himself at it, and the passers-by see only a wisp of smoke.”
“In the end we shall have had enough of cynicism and skepticism and humbug and we shall want to live more musically”
“Never, never rest contented with any circle of ideas, but always be certain that a wider one is still possible.”
“It's amazing what the body can adapt to & the spirit can endure, when to adapt & endure are the only choices you have.”
“I don't see why people keep their relationships secret. You shouldn't want them to be secret. You shouldn't be embarrassed. You should love each other and the world should know that and the world will be a better place for knowing that because when you are with each other you are a happier ,nicer person.”
“Never seek to tell thy love, / Love that never told can be; / For the gentle wind does move / Silently, invisibly.”
“Changing the world begins with evolving into your true self, Thru HIM.”
“We must submit to the refining process in order to become a part of something greater than ourselves.”
“I would venture a guess that
Everybody has a life to love,
they just haven't uncovered the beauty of
what their life experience has to offer yet.
Notice
the
word,
'Yet.'”
“Rightly guided science married to the purest form of religion only is the answer the whole world is looking for.”
““The best inventions are those that are never finished even if we change the way they look and sound the roots all come from the same tree but this what being a inventor is all about inspiring others to come up with ideas to make something better””
“Think of the long view of life, not just what's going to happen today or tomorrow. Don't give up what you most want in life for something you think you want now.”
“A Brave Heart is a Powerful Weapon.”
“The pen was his voice and the page his tears, when he was done; they called it a classic”
“Friendship is a creature formed for a companionship not for a herd”
“Ordinary people are easy to spot. They are the ones doing the same things you are. Time to try something different!”
“Famous quotes are as common as the person who said them. What makes them famous it that someone else wrote it down!”
“Life offers many choices. Like a piano, however, the only good choice is the one where all the notes play together in harmony. Bad choices will result in discord.”
“The quickest way to find love is to give love. If you want it too badly, you will not find it. The most secure way to keep love is to give it space and care to grow. If you hold it too tightly, you will lose it.”
“You must tell no one about your goals in life, they'll always use it against when you're doing wrong, especially teachers.”
“Love is the constant reincarnation of yourself combined with every single person that you meet along the way.”
“Being born is a gift, dying is a pleasure ..living is the true adventure. - John Alexander T”
“Ignorance to a certain degree is innocence but beyond that it becomes stupidity.”
“Seek peace and silence on natures beauty and you will discover happiness surrounds you.”
““Life is like a rhythm pending on the music that you create
As the flow slows down, you start to see But stop to live
As the flow speeds up, you don't realise anything until it reaches the last note...
...BUT what is the only matter?
To enjoy ours or somebody else's music?
Live full, live with no regret, live with a concept””
“The chance of not winning is not an excuse for a failure to start; however, the failure to start is the reason you will never win!”
“I Won't Be What You Want Me To Be, I Will Be What I Want To Be.”
“it is not neccessary to wear a mask when interacting with other people.
If you tell the truth even if it hurts, you get the feeling of living to the maximum of your expectations and it feels just great.”
“With every tear I shed , a new Pheonix rises within me which is more stronger,harder & tougher ...”
“Our love is like the misty rain that falls softly, but floods the river...”
“I want you to embark on the truth of loving yourself because when you love yourself and when you appreciate yourself, you will make healthy changes in your life for healthy reasons.”
“Start shaping your own day. Start walking your own walk. This journey is yours, take charge of it. Stop giving other people your power to shape your life.”
““Once you understand how powerful you are within, you exponentially increase the power and potentiality of everything outside of you.””
“Let today be the day that you become committed in being, in doing, in getting, achieving, in experiencing. Let today be the day that you are committed to being the change you wish to see. To living the life you wish to live.”
“One of the most healing things you can do is recognize where in your life you are your own poison.”
“Make conscious efforts and be optimistic about moving ahead in life: this might translate to giving up a lot, but you will even give up more if you remain where you are!!!! The choice is solely yours..”
“It is amazing what you can accomplish if you do not care who gets the credit.”
“love to travel, But hate to arrive”
“You can be good everywhere but 'THE BEST' only somewhere.”
“Don't hide yourself in regret, just love yourself and you're set. I'm on the right track baby, I was born this way.”
“i may not be into a best relationship but i'm not that desperate and rude to take other person's happiness..”
“Fear not, for I will always hold your hand through the hard times.Do not be ashamed to cry, for I will always be there to wipe your tears. Do not hesitate to come to me with your problems,because my heart will always be there to listen and help remember that I will be there for you always.”
“In the name of the best within you, do not sacrifice this world to those who are its worst. In the name of the values that keep you alive, do not let your vision of man be distorted by the ugly, the cowardly, the mindless in those who have never achieved his title. Do not lose your knowledge that man's proper estate is an upright posture, an intransigent mind and a step that travels unlimited roads. Do not let your fire go out, spark by irreplaceable spark, in the hopeless swamps of the approximate, the not-quite, the not-yet, the not-at-all. Do not let the hero in your soul perish, in lonely frustration for the life you deserved, but have never been able to reach. Check your road and the nature of your battle. The world you desired can be won, it exists, it is real, it is possible, it's yours.”
“Change is good... Change for the better..Change for you”
““Love is when someone searches the entire world for you because you are you.. And perfect to them because you are you. No change needed””
“To wake up in the morning and think that dreams will just happen, is wrong; you make dreams happen.”
“Nothing is difficult, when one can overcome with it !”
“Not everyone has the title to love or be loved.
If you can love and be loved, be sure to love with all your soul.”
“Thousands upon thousands of lights is inferior to a light of heart.”
“"Instead of the 1997 film directed, written, by James Cameron with Leonardo DiCaprio, Kate Winslet, Billy Zane creating a love story and a large diamond with a beautiful song “My Heart Will Go On” sung by Celine Dion. What about the real love story that took place that night between the passengers themselves, and many crew members knowing they would also give their lives. Adding another meaning for “SOS” Service, Obedience, and Sacrifice." ~Tom Baker”
“To wake up in the morning and think that dreams will just happen, is wrong; you make dreams happen.”
“Love is all, love is new / Love is all, love is you”
“the way you how to prove your love is to sucrifice with your self to someone even it is very defficult things to do”
“imagination opens a new portal in man's mind”
“Once we shatter the mirrors of fear. Only then are we able to view our true selves.”
“Be patient, Life is all about waiting”
“Salivate and extemporize!”
“The people around you are great influences on your behavior, for better or worse. Surround yourself with those who have similar goals and a similar vision. You'll be able to strengthen one another.”
“If you want better, get better.”
“What is Love? Various emotions wrapped up in one divine bottle of energy.”
“Spirits sweep through, Embrace… Nothing destroys Faith, even when everything else has drifted away. GlobalPray.”
“The absolute best gift that we could leave our future generations, is to become who we want them to be.”
“TIME IS THE FACILITY TO DO SOMETHING”
“i cant live my life looking at it through somebody else's point of view.”
“when life knocks you to your knees, just remember that you are in the perfect position to pray”
“I felt it shelter to speak to you.”
“Celebrate we will because life is short but sweet for certain we're climbing two by two to be sure these days continue.”
“All is fair in love and war.”
“Sometimes we must jump over the ducks to get into the water.”
“It's not how long your legs are; it's how fast you pick them up and put them down that counts.”
“Quite all worries, Quit all complains, focus on opportunities around u It is in the process of serving God n others that d Lord will give u d best.”
“To put worries away, you need to take mind off the 'When and How' and put mind in God.”
“"Be a candle that the wind won't blow out, to light the path for a friend" ~Tom Baker”
“Whether a small piece of sand or a rock
Always drowns the same way,
Miracles are God's mistake by chance
But we wait for one, as they say...”
“When you are dispirited, held back, beat down and you have no one,you can give up, give in, or you can find those things you need to stand within yourself.If no one else believes in you, then you must believe in yourself.If you can not get the love you need from others, you must make room in your heart and give that love to yourself.You must accept yourself exactly as you are, all your flaws, all your faults, all your dreams.”
“Change is at the door, accompanied by anxiety and fear; if you dare to open it, you may find that opportunity lies on the other side.”
“Faith is life. How do you live without it?”
“It just seems natural. You and me against the world.”
“Worries has done more harm than good to many, leaving them with headaches, pains and tears. The more you worry, the more you tell God He is not capable. The more you worry, the more you expand the mouth of the devil with smiles, laughter and joy.”
“Being raised right doesn't mean that we won't make mistakes, it means we'll learn from them”
“Just like the dim light over the horizon, the road i have to travel is far and hard, but the little stream of light in the darkness awakens my will”
“Success is that feeling that comes after overcoming a failure, you will not feel it as long as you are not failing, so be proud of your failures, they are the path to your success”
“The world is a small place, if you have a big heart.”
“Live it now for ever.”
“Like a falling petal, a singer must be as beautiful & perfect until the very moment they fall”
“If you don't love me, it does not matter, anyway I can love for both of us”
“Love is the greatest refreshment in life”
“The greatest beauty is found in love.”
“The ache of grief is always there,
but the emptiness will lift one day.
Their life to us the greatest gift,
and only by living can it be repaid.”
“To live in this single moment,
this lightest breath, this softest touch,
to be captured by this smallest, this briefest space of time,
to be fully present, alive, consumed in this instant alone,
this is truly living.”
“"He drew a circle that shut me out-
Heretic , rebel, a thing to flout.
But love and I had the wit to win:
We drew a circle and took him In !
From the poem " Outwitted"
— Edwin Markham”
“Most People think In the Box - Some think Outside the Box - I want to Create the Box”
“Wer nicht lächeln kann, soll kein
Geschäft aufmachen.
>”
“A life of reaction is a life of slavery, intellectually and spiritually. One must fight for a life of action, not reaction.”
“Slowly, surely, the trash can of life fills within, leaving us feeling empty. Yet once emptied, we feel fulfilled.”
“The guide does not walk your path.”
“Fan the sinking flame of hilarity with the wing of friendship; and pass the rosy wine.”
“Abuse changes your life...Fight Back and change the life of your abusers by Breaking Your Silence on Abuse!”
“Some people dream because deep down they know they don't have a chance, you dream because you're too scared to take one.”
““Although learning and sharing wisdom is the essence it is the purpose, the motive which makes the act everlasting. May all us get it right while we still can.””
“She will chase you around for a while but there gonna be one day when she gets tried of running and she gonna move on. At that moment you are going to wish you had let her catch you.”
“True friendship is like sound health; the value of it is seldom known until it is lost.”
“People's capacity to achieve is determined by their leader's ability to empower.”
“If the race horse straining to the finish line pays too much attention to the fly, it makes the fly too important.”
“If I got a penny for every time I thought of your well being, I'd be the youngest billionaire.”
“When you are lost look towards the stars they will led you to where you need to go.”
“Knowledge is not always on time, its learning how to apply it once you obtain it.”
“Rebounds are not about how hard you fall, but how high you bounce back up.”
“If Life had a rewind button , we would never move forward”
“Don't be a 'good example' of a 'bad example'.”
“Problems Create More Problems So Avoid Problems”
“Speak low, if you speak love.”
“Every great and deep difficulty bears in itself its own solution. It forces us to change our thinking in order to find it.”
“Although learning and sharing wisdom is the essence it is the purpose, the motive which makes the act everlasting. May all of us get it right while we still can.”
“Life experience is best told by someone who has already experienced it.”
“The cost of being positive, very little...the benefit of being positive, tremendous.”
“Every new day crowns us with new beginnings and glorious possibilities. Be sure to make every moment in this journey called LIFE count.”
“Life has no pleasure higher or nobler than that of friendship”
“They say out of sight, out of mind...true, but every now and again it comes back and slaps you in the face harder then the time before. Damn the luck.”
“So many people fall in love with the wrong person, simply b/c the wrong person will often say all the right things”
“Love is the best thing there ever is. There’s no words to describe it. You wouldn’t be able to fall asleep without thinking of the person, all there flaws disappear and its only them, you pass through each day like your floating cause when your in love there’s nothing that can turn you down. You feel as if your flying in the sky, and this time there wouldn’t be a limit .Its like you live each day waiting till you get to see them again. Its similar to a crush that never goes away…”
“When you invest in kindness and love, your ROI increases exponentially. Believe that.”
“The act of Living The Dream is to concentrate and draw on the power of the present.”
“The power of Twitter is in your sharing, not your selling”
“When anyone tells you cant achieve anything, it's because they fear your greatness.”
“Love is the most powerful stimulus package. Love stimulates belief, creativity and action.”
“He's not a good guy, he's a great man.”
“Everyone is scared of something, the truly brave are the ones that are willing to admit it.”
“Halt the casting of a stone that would prove better served in building a solid foundation.”
“You will never move ahead in your life as long as you keep looking behind”
“My mother also taught me that when life hits me to the ground, I am permitted 24 hrs. to have my pity party - cry, scream, kick and complain. After those 24 hours, I am to pull myself up by the boot straps and move on. So, I devised a plan. I allow myself 12 hrs to party and spend the next 12 hours pulling one strap at a time until I'm fully standing and then I kick the party in the rearend.”
“Let graciousness fall today into the laps of the weak, into the hearts of the sorrowful, into the eyes of the tearful, into the pockets of the destitute, into the souls of the forgotten and then unto the ones lost within greed, corruption and scandal, that their righteousness be absolved.”
“Following the direction of the wind is not necessarily the right direction. Sometimes, walking against the wind is the path that yields greatness.”
“Always look for the silver lining. The sky may be falling, but at least it's not raining.”
“You can do anything you need if you just believe in it!”
“Leaders are readers, so lead oneself to read!”
“Don’t even bother putting your shoes on if you’re not going to walk towards your dreams.”
“Social media should improve your life, not become your life!”
“She gives and gives but he never really gives back its her and only her, who is in the relationship, its her who hurts and hurts alone but yet he sees her upset and only thinks about what he wants and all she wants is for him to care.”
“Thousands of candles can be lit from a single candle, and the life of the candle will not be shortened. Happiness never decreases by being shared.”
“Everyday breeds new opportunity, adventure and change; do not presume the possible to be impossible.”
“Make this a positive and fruitful day...unless you've made other plans!”
“Do the best you can, with what you can, while you can, and success in inevitable.”
“You are young at heart if you always feel like 18, even when you're over 50!”
“Stop blaming outside circumstances for your inside chaos.”
“Do all things with love, passion and dedication!”
“If your idea is big enough, and crazy enough, all you have to do is survive. If you survive, you will succeed.”
“In the most incredible of storms, calmness lies within.”
“Some folks say that Perception is Reality, but I have always operated under the premise that Reality is Reality. Keep it real!”
“I love thee, I love but thee With a love that shall not die Till the sun grows cold, And the stars grow old...”
“Everyone has a heart, but not everybody knows how to use it.”
“I love those who can smile in trouble, who can gather strength from distress, and grow brave by reflection. 'Tis the business of little minds to shrink, but they whose heart is firm, and whose conscience approves their conduct, will pursue their principles unto death.”
“Is the caterpillar Living The Dream before it turns into a butterfly; we should all believe the privilege of flight is coming.”
“Dance as if no one were watching, Sing as if no one were listening, And live every day as if it were your last”
“For I don't care too much for money, / For money can't buy me love.”
“Sometimes we feel bad for wanting to move on, but I really believe that folk either help or hinder...there's no in between. If most of the folk in your 5 do not represent the you you want to be, perhaps it's time for a new 5, dag on it!”
“Hate your job? Instead of bemoaning that today is Monday, consciously take positive action with the intention of improving your situation.”
“Practice doesn't make perfect, but whatever you practice at can only improve.”
“Surround yourself with people who are better than you and you will become better yourself.”
“I find it challenging to think a negative thought when I'm smiling.”
“People respond more to what you do than what you say.”
“The common denominator of success and happiness is other people.”
“If I'm not making a difference, I'm not making progress. Does my music inspire you?”
“You cannot display more integrity than you actually have.”
“The time has come to grow and not to fall, in-love”
“The common American serves money not God.”
“I am what I say you are, and what I am is what you say, as so you are.”
“Money won't buy our peace or freedom, we must obtain both without it.”
“She does what she has to when she needs too.”
“Best Wishes! Here is the start of the end of the old you.”
“Welcome to today, yesterday is dead and gone, tomorrow is only a dream. Today is all you have and will ever need.”
“I'd rather you remember me how I was and am now than see me dead because of something I did.”
“Courage consists in the power of self-recovery.”
“By persisting in your path, though you forfeit the little, you gain the great.”
“Too bad America was killed by government, so sad we are not United States by the people.”
“What's changing the world; they are after that. I would rather voyage into what can preserve LIFE. It's high time they chose LIFE CHANGE over many a crazy worldly change.”
“I will prefer FOOLISH IMAGINATION than SMART LIMITATION as the daily diet for my mind.”
“Whatever you do, you need courage. Whatever course you decide upon, there is always someone to tell you that you are wrong. There are always difficulties arising that tempt you to believe your critics are right.”
“Pray, ask, believe and ye shall receive.”
“Failures are lessons learned as well as one step closer toward success.”
“None of us will ever accomplish anything excellent or commanding except when he listens to this whisper which is heard by him alone.”
“Enthusiasm is the mother of effort, and without it nothing great was ever achieved.”
“It is easy in the world to live after the world's opinion, it is easy in solitude to live after your own; but the great man is he who, in the midst of the world, keeps with perfect sweetness the independence of solitude.”
“the road to success is paved with a lot of broken pavement”
“The more you cry, the more you will laugh. So cry as hard as possible.”
“What ever the mind of man can conceive and believe, it can achieve.”
“You cannot have what you want when you put energy into the things you don't want”
“Do not sabotage your new relationship with your last relationship’s poison.”
“A goal is a dream with a deadline.”
“When your desires are strong enough, you will appear to possess superhuman powers to achieve”
“The starting point of all achievement is desire”
“Cherish your visions and your dreams as they are the children of your soul; the blueprints of your ultimate achievements.”
“No man ever achieved worth-while success who did not, at one time or other, find himself with at least one foot hanging well over the brink of failure.”
“Strength and growth come only through continuous effort and struggle...”
“We are not supposed to live just for others to make us happy- we are to figure out what we can do for and in the service of others- making their lives better. Most problems come from passivity- not maintaining what others (or we) have already gained! Everybody has the same opportunity- BUT you must be willing to do "the thing" to take advantage of the opportunity.”
“You Don't Need A Wishbone You Need A Backbone! Take Control Of Your Life!!”
“Don't Wait Till You're At The End Of Your Rope! Before You Take Action In Your Life!”
“Opportunity often comes in disguised in the form of misfortune, or temporary defeat.”
“You Don't Need A Wishbone You Need A Backbone! Take Control Of Your Life!!”
“Desire is the starting point of all achievement, not a hope, not a wish, but a keen pulsating desire which transcends everything.”
“We are not supposed to live just for others to make us happy- we are to figure out what we can do for and in the service of others- making their lives better. Most problems come from passivity- not maintaining what others (or we) have already gained! Everybody has the same opportunity- BUT you must be willing to do "the thing" to take advantage of the opportunity.”
“The most interesting thing about a postage stamp is the persistence with which it sticks to its job.”
“We all have been ignorant teachers, as well as dumb students.”
“If wars were run by teachers casualties would be the ignorant and victory a lesson learned”
“OH NO, My RELATIONSHIP With GOD Is NOT JUST a PHASE... I'M GONNA SEE THIS THROUGH....AIMING FOR The TRUE PRIZE... There's NO ONE and NOTHING GREATER THAN HIM.....”
“There is one quality which one must possess to win, and that is definiteness of purpose, the knowledge of what one wants, and a burning desire to possess it.”
“The MORE I Deal With Others, The MORE I LEARN That SOMETIMES YOU Just HAVE TO IGNORE IGNORANCE... LOL... Either SOME WEREN'T TAUGHT RIGHT, or They Just DON'T WANT TO BE RIGHT... EITHER WAY, Just REMEMBER That GOD KNOWS ALL and HE SEES ALL...”
“Love is what happens to a man and woman who don't know each other”
“My Work makes me to Work !”
“YOUR WORDS, YOUR THOUGHTS Of Me, YOUR FRIENDSHIP DON'T CONTROL ME... My PAST, My MISTAKES, My FAILURES WON'T STOP Me... GOD IS IN CONTROL!!!”
“Hatred is never ended by hatred but by love”
“Time, which strengthens friendship, weakens love.”
“LIfe? LIfe? It's Death that makes life worth living for.”
“Successful self-development also involves taking more self-time to be quiet and think for oneself!”
“Whenever fear gets the best of me and is being a hindrance in achieving great things, I'd stop and reflect.. Then ask the question, Which is greater, my fear or my dreams? Then, I'd smile and say to myself, my Dreams. :)”
“Green Eggs and Ham was the story of my life. I wouldn't eat a thing when I was a kid, but Dr. Suess inspired me to try cauliflower.”
“enjoying life is based on your foreplay,where wit,insight and world are the key players”
“Life is a cross road, the right road can save you also let's you progress with your future and the wrong road can destroy your very being”
“I believe in what I can not see; I trust my imagination.”
“not because we can not do, but because we do not want to do that.”
“I make Magicians”
“Miracles happen. You got to let them happen to you”
“Don't wait until everything is just right. It will never be perfect. There will always be challenges, obstacles and less than perfect conditions. So what. Get started now. With each step you take, you will grow stronger and stronger, more and more skilled, more and more self-confident and more and more successful.”
“Don't forget. In a years time you could be dead. Don't postpone a life for tomorrow that you can start today.”
“There is a courtesy of the heart; it is allied to love. From its springs the purest courtesy in the outward behavior.”
“I think LOVE stands for Letting Ourselves Value Everyone ... give yourself a chance to understand the value of everyone around ... it is not always YOU it is US that matter”
“To control your destiny and become “it”, you must master the red light, green light game of life.”
“The quest for treasure lays only in the mind until it's ready to be found.”
“Pride has gotten me nowhere, but I’m too proud to admit it. Pride will get you nowhere; don’t be too proud to admit it.”
“Music is love, love is music, music is my life and I love my life. Thank you and goodnight.”
“a justification is just an excuse we've made in our head to make our unacceptable act ok. sometimes theyre good, sometimes theyre bad, but either way, theyre only in our head. the world just sees the unacceptable act.”
“Stand tall through dark.. It's OKAY to fall every now and again.. Because when you get back up you realize that you've improved. Life IS tough, there's no working around that. From dawn until the darkest part of the night be true to yourself and the others around you who give you the proper respect and love you deserve. With this, I promise you'll live happy.”
“Effective communicators are the most powerful people in the world.”
“To be capable of steady friendship or lasting love, are the two greatest proofs, not only of goodness of heart, but of strength of mind”
“There is no greater glory than love, nor any greater punishment than jealousy.”
“I always felt that the great high privilege, relief and comfort of friendship was that one had to explain nothing.”
“How do you know it's love? I don't know, but it lasts forever.”
“To dance is to be in tune with the steps of life.”
“Set your intention and let the Universe decide how you are going to reach it.”
“This is your day, add richness and meaning. Keep peace in your heart, in your thoughts and in your actions. Do what is right, what is real, what is true and what is you.”
“You'll be the same year after year except for the people you meet, the books you read, the films you watch, the places you travel, and the new things you do.”
“The greater the challenge, the greater the glory.”
“The only justification of beliefs is that you want to believe”
“I WOULD LIKE TO THANK EVERYONE WHO HAS EVER DOUBTED OR RIDICULED ME!!! BECAUSE OF YOU, I AM THE STRONG PERSON I AM TODAY!!!”
“Confidence is the only way to win in life.”
“Leaders do not require affirmation.”
“I live my life in my own way and others are inspired to do the same.”
“It's not about what I SEE for our future, or humanity; It's about what I DO for our future and humanity.”
“Live the life you would like to inspire others to live. A life of kindness. Joy. Doing what you love with passion. Excitement. Fun.”
“Imagine watching a movie on your life ...are you enjoying your movie? Is it fun? Entertaining? Inspiring? An adventure? Make it fun!”
“The best stock to invest in is yourself.
Ticker symbol: YSLF”
“You have what it takes to take an ordinary moment and give it extraordinary value!”
“You might say I'm ugly, but my heart says another.”
“For Love is Immortality.”
“Note to self; nobody will ever invest more in you then yourself.
So why are you trusting the hand of another to decide whether you succeed or not?”
“Your life is not a flip of a coin, so don’t conduct your decision making in this manner. Do you really want to leave it up to chance whether you succeed or not?”
“Money just draws flies.”
“Trees are the earth's endless effort to speak to the listening heaven.”
“Appreciate how alive pain makes you feel; the deceased feel no pain.”
“creation of others, people wonder how ? ,innovation buzz in my dreams ,i wonder it can be me”
“Love is like a hangnail.”
“Beauty by design is not as great a gift as beauty inside.”
“Losing comes naturally, winning comes gradually.”
“Don't confuse Your mind by thinking of Your Girlfriend, but reassure Your mind that Your Best Friend will always give the best for You.”
“Life declares war on the body; prepare for battle by exercising your body and mind to its peak, your quality of life and survival depend on it.”
“The struggle we undergo to remain faithful to one we love is little better than infidelity.”
“Without our lows, we wouldn’t appreciate our highs.”
“Whether you are sixteen or sixty, the rest of your life is ahead of you. You cannot change one moment of your past, but you can change your whole future. Now is your time.”
“Love what you stand for, or sit down.”
“Be a man of value & character”
“It's never to late to have the life you've always wanted.”
“when our eyes touched it was love at frist sight, like a fantasy, you shinning with light.”
“Zero experience is required when creating something original.”
“Always do whatever's next”
“Trust your intuition; it’s a friend that will always have your back and never leave your side.”
“The fall of man is caused by the seductiveness of Inspiration, Pleasure, Natural Beauty, Material Instinct and their refusal too cooperate with their counterparts, Imagination, Inelligence, Passion, and Instinct.”
“Looking to the dead for inspiration strikes me as about as logical as looking to the cruel for compassion. When I need help breathing, I tend to start with people who are.”
“The terminal disease that I’m starting to fear most, is old age.”
“love needs no script... it just happens accidentally and erupts inside you... like an earthquake...”
“why we feel ashamed judging our self... when we all know... we are imperfect... learning... human beings...”
“I born... was miracle... still surviving on this planet earth... is miracle... i am surrounded by miracles... because people who love or loving me... praying for me... their prayers transforms in me as miracles...”
“most often people cry with them self to realize stress... in order to feel good...”
“if no one questions our beliefs... we have a better chance of enjoying our ignorance...”
“Grace must find expression in life, otherwise it is not grace.”
“sometimes whats is right to me... can not be right to you...”
“Truth is absolute, no matter what your truth says it is.”
“i see myself in the faces of humanity...”
“The great tragedy of life is not that men perish, but that they cease to love.”
“some people take transformation as a threat... but transformation is challenge... and it dose not transform our custom... it strengthens it...”
“i live of passion - driven with devotion, focus with foundation, giving with goodness, living with love.”
“If you tell yourself that you are the best,so you'll be,everything lies in your tongue if you believe in yourself”
“Waste not another minute dreaming of what could be; the time to act is now.”
“Good strides make good vibes.”
“You are destined to fail if you don’t start; there’s a starting line to every finish line.”
“Martin Luther King had a Dream,Nelson Mandela had a Long walk to Freedom,so is it for you to set yourself free and start to explore your own Dream?”
“I am proud to be the way my Father made me.”
“Happiness is a state of mind, a choice, a way of living, not a destination.”
“RIP Steve Jobs....
Newton only observed falling apple but you was the one who actually grabbed it !!!”
“How is it that one must live? Fully! How is it that one must love? Deeply!”
“If we let things terrify us, life will not be worth living.”
“Trust yourself and therefore others. No need of suspicion, trust and you’ll live a world of peace.”
“Even if you haven’t met someone else’s expectations, you’re way beyond your own heart’s”
“Do not fight against feelings.
Let us be always lovers never fighters!”
“Those who contemplate the beauty of the earth find resources of strength that will endure as long as life lasts”
“A Poem without rhyme is the greatest crime.”
“No matter how difficult or hard it may seem, learn from it and be grateful for all of it.”
“Invisible is where visible is created.
Believe in the invisible,
And you’ll see it materialized!”
“Change is the only permanent thing in life”
“The only way to achieve happiness is by feeling good, not by working hard!”
“There will always be uncertainty in life. That’s where Hope, Love, and Faith come into play..”
“Be still! In the silence of the heart,
One learns the journey of the wise”
“There are no mistakes in life, only lessons.”
“Can one ever let go of the past when the future becomes the present and the present becomes your past?”
“Love with passion what you do…
Success is the natural result of that love!”
“Isn't life a series of images that change as they repeat themselves?”
“When you look at the inner workings of electrical things, you see wires. Until the current passes through them, there will be no light. That wire is you and me. The current is God. We have the power to let the current pass through us, use us, to produce the light of the world, Jesus, in us. Or we can refuse to be used and allow darkness to spread.”
“For every right ACTION, there is equal right OPPORTUNITY”
“Love is a deep well from which you may drink often, but into which you may fall but once”
“Betting against someone who has won 27 straight times, is praying for his downfall.”
“Betting against a man who has won 27 straight times is the same as praying for his downfall”
“There is more pleasure in loving than in being beloved”
“Most problems are like kidney stones, they may seem serious and all encompassing in the heat of the moment, but eventually it will pass.”
“Life is so complete that even when knocked on our backs, we have the best view of the stars.”
“To live; to love; to learn; and to leave a legacy”
“I loved words. I love to sing them and speak them and even now, I must admit, I have fallen into the joy of writing them.”
“Every matter exist is math, including space itself.”
“Love is an enduring energy that can never be truly 'lost'. Even when love is not apparent in the moment, what the pain reveals is the indelible mark love left on your soul. Focus on the love and it is never lost.”
“I await, the great.”
“If you can organize your kitchen, you can organize your life.”
“A boy makes his girl jealous of other women. A gentleman makes other women jealous of his girl”
“Power without influence is equivalent to a king without a kingdom.”
“One way to be successful is to walk in the footsteps of Jesus.”
“Practice help not hate and you shall have.”
“The differences between friends cannot but reinforce their friendship”
“The key to life is accepting challenges. Once someone stops doing this, he's dead.”
“There can be no hope when there lacks interest for better. There can be no trust when there lacks confirmation of truth. There can be no faith when there lacks complete confidence of purpose.”
“A pessimist sees the difficulty in every opportunity; an optimist sees the opportunity in every difficulty.”
“Do not follow where the path may lead. Go, instead, where there is no path and leave a trail.”
“Now, bring me that horizon.”
“Confidence imparts a wonderful inspiration to its possessor”
“There are Two Kind of people in the world
One who just sit and Bitch and The other one who get on the ground and DO....”
“Tomorrow is too late to take today away.”
“Real results come from what you do, not what you say you can do.”
“We all have the ability to change the lives of others, but only when we lose the fear of changing ourselves.”
“A poet never takes notes. You never take notes in a love affair.”
“All good things in life are inspired by your friends is the new All good things in life are free”
“''In India ruling party always says-
Everest is hard to move and we can't..
Opposition party always says-
Its is easy and you don't...”
“I give from my own volition and not for the recognition…”
“We value seven wonders of world more than 7 million wonders of nature.How silly we are..''
(Sabin Wilfred)”
“No dream is to high to reach, but our will to reach it is too low”
“Don't stop in the middle of things, because you're a hero and it's only the begining”
“Sometimes you have to watch the pieces fall so you know how to put them back together.”
“Sometimes you have to push your brain aside and say, "I got this one.”
“Lifestyle freedom is the ability to do what you want to do,when you want to do it and with whom you want to do it with for however long you want to do it.”
“A bully grows weaker and a victim gets stronger”
“Pain is God's way of saying, 'are you paying attention?'”
“I knocked on many doors, said hello to many people, smiled at many strangers. Let your fate rest in your hands not in the hands of others.”
“Hate life and it will hate you back, love life and it will love you back”
“Don't walk through life with your eyes closed.”
“Words are faith vehicles to take you to your promise land.”
“Your dream loves you, but do you love your Dream?”
“The difference between being a little successful and being ultimately successful is taking over 100 times more action!”
“It occurs to me that I will always go through hard times but it will be nothing I can't handle. This is because I am in the will of GOD!”
“Perhaps our eyes need to be washed by our tears once in a while, so that we can see Life with a clearer view again.”
“The most important day of your life is your birthday, because your birth certificate gives you the right to be a champion.”
“An open mind and an open heart will allow the dream inside of
you to become a reality.”
“The Human Journey is all about Attitude and Consequences”
“When you can’t pour water out of your boot with a hole in it, you need to step back and see the answer right at your feet.”
““If I am not for myself, then who will be for me? And if I am only for myself, then what am I? And if not now, when?””
“You must treat everyday like a present and open it with great expectation.”
“Live each day as if it's a precious Gift, because it is.”
“You must decide to develop personal success habits on a daily basis that will empower you to break those defaults that were cemented in you during childhood.”
“Only my dreams are real”
“to get something you never had, you need to do something you have never done”
““I believe the true measure of a man is not what my boss, friends, family or any person thinks, judges or says about me. But what my kids say, believe and think of me when playing and talking to their friends.””
“If the bridge to your past is burned behind you, then you have no choice but to travel the path into a successful future.”
“Choosing success over failure is YOUR decision!”
“When you have a cement commitment behind your dreams,nothing will stop you.”
“Via heart, suffering, inspiration and survival, a hero is born.”
“Let no one who loves be unhappy... even love unreturned has its rainbow.”
“Delegating responsibility does not relinquish personal accountability.”
“To be in love is merely to be in a state of perceptual anesthesia.”
“Most of life's doors are not front doors nor back doors, but rather unexpected side doors.”
“Problems happen—that is the very nature of the world scene—they also should be viewed as personal and professional opportunities.”
“When everyone else says it's impossible and you'll fail, your personal commitment provides another voice that says you will persevere and win.”
“Few things in life have as much power as commitment.”
“I thought that sun and stars
are brighter than anything
But how can we forget
Success!”
“Don't let negative people determine your level of success.”
“Take control and authority over your lack of commitment in the past and recommit to yourself to the achievement of your goals and dreams.”
“The Pleasure of a dream is that its a fantasy If its happens its never a DREAM”
“Trying is when you undermine yourself,doing the best is when you let others to know they can do more”
“My Ideas are Inventions to early - Abhishek Peter”
“Daily commitment to the achievement of your DREAMS will push you through the trials of life.”
“Your commitment is the foundation and it's your decisions that will determine whether or not your foundation will crack in the
midst of life's storms.”
“We cannot sow a selfish attitude and expect to reap abundance and generosity.”
“If you make the habit of giving a main priority in your life, then you will be blessed beyond all of your goals and dreams that you have ever imagined achieving.”
“Sometimes your simple smile means a whole world to some people. A smile does not cost anything. Smile and change someone's world. Smile to yourself and change your universe...”
“If you want something you never had,
you must do something you never did.”
“I love the people here. I love New York.”
“Giving is an attitude. It is not dependent on the amount of money in your bank account. It’s a heart issue.”
“At the beginning of every day ask yourself,“What seed can I plant today in order to predict my future?””
“Give someone the opportunity to have their life changed by you setting a championship example.”
“You can impact someone's LIFE if they can Listen, Imagine, Feel and Experience what you tell them.”
“Grace was in all her steps, Heav'n in her Eye, In every gesture dignity and love”
“Remember that the most valuable antiques are dear old friends.”
“You can have, be, do or achieve anything you truly DESIRE.”
“If you have been negatively labeled, I want you to tear that label off of you right now. A label is a lie! The miracle inside of you is larger than any label on the outside.”
“We must let go of the life we have planned, so as to accept the one that is waiting for us.”
“Expect Super Natural Miracles everyday…I do!”
“Let your heart out of its cage. Release your heart to dream about an unimaginable future.”
“You should think so big that it actually scares you into success and out of the land of fear, which is quicksand for your dreams.”
“Faith is the cornerstone of hope.”
“The world is unique and it's the way I see it.”
“Folks recognition and respect will come to the ones who recognize and respect others first.”
“You endured and persevered thru calamity; thus, a hero was born.”
“THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A GOOD MAN OR WOMAN AND A GREAT MAN OR WOMAN IS GREAT ADVERTISING.”
“A community without accountability doesn’t stand a chance!”
“Warm summer sun, shine kindly here. Warm southern wind, blow softly here. Green sod above, lie light, lie light. Good night, dear Heart, Good night, good night.”
“Even if today will not help you to achieve your dreams,remember tomorrow will always be there.”
“look at yourself before u look at the other face. u will be the best”
“when you want to defeat someone, defeat yourself first...!”
“Chance Miracle Conjunction of circumstances Nobody knows; all we know is that we make things happen.”
“say thanks for everything that u have. and u will found that u are the best”
“i am me. u are you. there is no samething.”
“Defeat breeds change, and change breeds victory.”
“Ignorance is the enemy.”
“Hatred is a self-addressed envelope.”
“Be righteous without being self-righteous.”
“The greater danger for most of us is not
that our aim is too high and we miss it,
but that it is too low and we reach it.”
“Birthdays, Birthdays every singale day is a Birthday, so Happy Birthday.”
“Just because the critics are louder than you doesn't mean they're right.”
“Remain open - there's something bigger than you know going on here.”
“There is no say that there is no way.”
“I find great satisfaction in doing my best.”
“The cosmos has a fantastic way of self-correcting for stupid people.”
“If you want something now, chase it!
If you wanna keep it, catch it!
But if you want it forever wait for it, it will come to you!”
“I experience growth through exercising my power and potential.”
“Change is not something to fear. It simply means taking a different course.”
“Working smarter is the luxury you earn once you've worked yourself to death.”
“Your dream will change your daily actions and take you to places that you have never seen or considered before.”
“Your ultimate success is always hidden by problems. In solving them, you acquire the skills that you need to be a leader.”
“Ask for what you want, don't wait for what you get, for you may never get what you need.”
“Trying is your way to ‘win in the moment.”
“Just as the butterfly must struggle to shed its cocoon we all have to struggle into success.”
“When we don't have struggles or obstacles to overcome, we become complacent, lazy and passive.”
“My life journey challenges me to be better than I realized.”
“Winning is a philosophy; not a result.”
“one has to take chances, perhaps take a risk to fall in love and live life to the fullest...overall, just "be in the moment" because every second spent angry or upset is a second of happiness you can never recoup.”
“Welcome each turning point as an opportunity.”
“Once you bring life into the world, you must protect it. We must protect it by changing the world.”
“Passionate curiosity rarely loses.”
“Sometimes the best sense of ‘having it all together’ is an understanding that ’being normal’ isn’t really all that attractive.”
“Rejection is all in your head.”
“The most important season for a seed is the rain. Without it, the seed will wither and die. Your tears are the rain that will breathe life into the seed of greatness in your heart.”
“Our destiny is not determined by what happens to us, but how we react to what happens to us; not by what life brings to us as a destiny, but by the attitude we bring to life in determining our own destiny.”
“Being more productive in business is about having conversations with your clients.”
“THE BEST TIME TO PREPARE FOR THE WORST OF TIMES IS DURING THE BEST OF TIMES.”
“If hope didn't exist, neither would I”
“Time is a factor for what I'm after.”
“Being open minded gives you more options than a one track mind.”
“God will give you a season that will challenge you through emotional times to develop the wings of faith-filled champion.”
“Your fruits in your life are solely based upon the roots that have been developed by the seeds that you have planted.”
“Despite your genius, things go wrong -- sometimes horribly, frightfully wrong.”
“Courage is not no much a single big action as it is a series of small and seemingly insignificant way of living.”
“Extinguish the negative perception of pain out of your life. Pain is your rain. Without the “pain rain”, you’re not going to have the nutrients needed to feed the seed that will produce the harvest and manifest your championship life.”
“Are you allowing the darkness in your life to feed you or infuriate you?”
“Even though it’s do-or-die, dying is easier than doing.”
“True love always makes a man better, no matter what woman inspires it”
“Trust your elevated thoughts, especially those that stir up passion, and then act on them as if they were unquestionable!”
“Confidence comes from succeding once and failing many times!”
“Changing the world is not just a possibility, we are doing it whether we want to or not.”
“Champions have a cement commitment. Is your commitment built on sand or on cement?”
“Through pain we grow, through growth we find understanding, through understanding we find acceptance, through acceptance we find love, through love we understand what it is to live.”
“Just like a vacuum sucks up all the dirt on your floor, your negative associations suck the life out of your dream.”
“Being memorable is an investment made long before the gain is realized.”
“Don’t confuse ‘spending money’ with developing discipline, working tirelessly, and fixing problems with your sales skills.”
“Our talents are the gift that God gives to us... What we make of our talents is our gift back to God!”
“They do not love that do not show their love.”
“Prepare yourself to be amazed by learning from everything.”
“Your commitment will be proven when the enemy attacks.”
“Say it - “I am a champion. I am a champion chooser. I choose to commit to change because I’m willing to pay the price to fulfill my goals and dreams.””
“You can only sustain the storms in life if you have the correct daily, focused,preparation habits of a champion.”
“Sales is a war.”
“The answer for love is time. If there is a real love, time will show it.”
“Discipline drives our dreams toward success.”
“I know I can sustain any storm in my life, because of my commitment to daily preparation and my laser-focused habits.”
“It is the mark of an educated mind to be able to entertain a thought without accepting it.”
“It doesnt matter how good you are,if you re a champion,good will never be enough!”
“Learning is not child's play; we cannot learn without pain”
“Though chains be of gold, they are chains all the same”
“Character, in the long run, is the decisive factor in the life of an individual and of nations alike.”
“Don't worry when you are not recognized, but strive to be worthy of recognition.”
“You have to do your own growing no matter how tall your grandfather was.”
“Allow your rainy season to feed the seed in your heart so that you can mature to the next level in life.”
“It is as useless to argue with those who have renounced the use of reason as to administer medication to the dead”
“Results never lie. Conclusions can.”
“What is to give light must endure the burning.”
“So go ahead. Fall down. The world looks different from the ground.”
“With brains and no brawn you get ‘genius inactivity’. But with brawn and no brains you get ‘fruitless effort’. You need both.”
“Experiencing success is not so much about getting to the goal line as it is about getting past the point of breakthrough.”
“No one can stop you when you decide that you'll never quit.”
“Are you truly committed to your goals and dreams? Saying it doesn’t mean that you are living it.”
“It's fine to celebrate success but it is more important to heed the lessons of failure.”
“We can never have enough of nature. We must be refreshed by the sight of inexhaustible vigor”
“The Internet is becoming the town square for the global village of tomorrow.”
“Every saint has a past and every sinner has a future.”
“There are two things to aim at in life: first, to get what you want, and after that to enjoy it. Only the wisest of mankind achieve the second.”
“Your future harvest is a result of the seeds that you have sown through your actions and your words.”
“Are you kidding? This is Harry Potter! I love every last moment of it.”
“I said....Oh I got it now God : ) All these truths just keep coming to mind....He did say when you are weakest, I am strongest....well duh, some of us just take longer to GET IT....it's one thing to say it and another to GET IT!”
“You are your choices.”
“If you don't ever get out of your comfort zone you will never make it to the end zone!”
“What I see, may not be what you see, because
I now see life through My Spiritual Eyes”
“I have been through Hell, but it doesn't mean I have to stay there.”
“He that shuts love out, in turn shall be Shut out from love, and on her threshold lie, Howling in outer darkness.”
“We can't change ourselves, it is Gods strength within us that makes the changes. We must do our part and God does His. What I tried to do myself is tiny compared to what God and I do together. He is the best partner I have ever had!”
“Through light and joy is the world opened up, revealed for what it is: ineffable beauty, unending creation.”
“God is not just something one adds to their life, He is your life.”
“It’s the inglorious resolve of broken dreamers that create a hero.”
“Cuttin' my fins through the water, like a knife through butter, it's what I do best.”
“Flocks of seagulls, mist of the ocean, nice waves, beautiful sunset, it's all about getting back on your board and doing it again and again.”
“God is in the demolition business, he knocked down the wall I resurrected around my heart.”
“If everything fell apart today, I know everything will be alright tomorrow, because I've got you babe, and you make my heart feel free of sorrow.”
“It is better to be a coward for a minute than dead for the rest of your life”
“When you wish for something or someone, the universe listens and wants to give it to you. But when she speaks through the events of your life, you must listen too, for, like a mother, she knows what's best for you... and the people around you...”
“We must get out of the boat, but don't get out before He tells you to walk or you might sink.”
“Big may make the news but small changes the world”
“Life itself is a quotation.”
“The Reason Why There Is So Much Controversy Over What Is 'Normal' Is Because People Can't Agree On The Type Of Counting Measures They Should Use To Measure Something.”
“There is a reason for every season. If you don’t have the season of emotional darkness, then you can’t enjoy the season of sunshine.”
“...and your body is the harp of your soul, and it is yours to bring forth sweet music or confused sounds.”
“I used to be so self-centered and only thought about my own little world and what was going on in it...then I realized if I kept doing that, I would miss out on seeing the BIG picture.”
““In order to better ensure our chosen future, we must first learn from and understand as well as respect the past.””
“Contentment kills conquest; dissatisfaction breeds conquerors.”
“After sadness, depression and heartache subsides, hope is born.”
“Brilliant people make brilliant mistakes”
“Faith is knowing in your heart that something is going to happen when there is absolutely no proof that it even exists.”
“Daily, consistent, focused, faithful expectation raises the miracle power of achieving your dreams.”
“Sometimes in life you get dealt a horrible hand and worse flop; it’s up to you, and how you play the turn and river, to whether or not you stay in the game.”
“Without music, life would be an error.”
“Be destroyed and damaged, but never defeated.”
“The only place where 'success' comes before 'work' is a dictionary.”
“Life's burdens are lighter when I laugh at myself.”
“You don’t have the power to make life “fair,” but you do have the power to make life joyful.”
“Joy is a Choice - but Not an Easy Choice.”
“Choose the World You See, and See the World You Choose.”
“When you are inspired, you are InSpirit”
“A flower is a weed seen through joyful eyes.”
“Forgiveness is the cleansing fire that burns away old regrets and resentments.”
“Fear is the root of the tree of suffering.”
“I am Counterpoint to the Clamor of the World.”
“Powerful Dreams Inspire Powerful Action.
When you can taste, smell, and touch your dreams, you can enroll the world.”
“Powerful Dreams Inspire Powerful Action.
When you can taste, smell, and touch your dreams, you can enroll the world.”
“Celebrate endings - for they precede new beginnings.”
“You can do anything, if you find good help.”
“Where There is Love, Nothing is Missing.”
“People say nothing is impossible, but I do nothing every day.”
“There is nothing I ever need to have.
There is nothing I ever need to do.
I say NO to the demands of the world.
I say YES to the longings of my own heart.”
“The sun will always rise, it is us who may not always rise with it.”
“It is one thing to read Positive Affirmations, It is another thing to Embody and Live Them. Live life Large and On Purpose!”
“Sorrow & Happiness are both human’s best friend as they are forever in your life, unseen but felt and never deceive you rather makes you more close to reality….”
“You are a champion so act like one!”
“Earning Success Gives It Value”
“So walk through the door. Walk through the door and see if it leads to another one open. For if it does than you shall make your presence. For if it dosn't you shall call you dream reality and make sleeping just another thing we do”
“Have faith and be faithful.”
“I have never felt salvation in nature. I love cities above all.”
“If you tell the truth you don't have to remember anything.”
“The more you know, the less you need to show.”
“When someone's leg is hurting, be their crutch, when someone's short of breath be their air, and when someone's life is hurting let them know you CARE.”
“Your daily decisions determine your ultimate destination.”
“In General,People Live Up Or Down To The Expectations Put Upon Them.”
“Your results are the product of either personal focus or personal distractions. The choice is yours.”
“Your results are the product of either personal focus or personal distractions. The choice is yours.”
“Absences are a good influence in love and keep it bright and delicate.”
“Be of strong character, conquer and conclude your resolutions; to achieve victory, you must finish what you start.”
“Accountability separates the wishers in life from the action-takers that care enough about their future to account for their daily actions.”
“If you don’t stick to your word, then you are jeopardizing your integrity.”
“Systems will either empower you to succeed or set you up to fail. Make the decision to build your daily success systems.”
“It Is Our Will To Create Something Without The Need Of A Related Stimulus To Give Us The Idea To Create That Something That Truly Distinguishes Us From A Sophisticated Computer.”
“Of all the things which wisdom provides to make life entirely happy, much the greatest is the possession of friendship”
“The key of persistence will open up any door that has been closed by resistance.”
“Without common sense, your life will be a circle of nonsense*”
“Are you living in S.I.N. (Sunk Into Negativity)? Or, are you living in J.O.Y. (Jubilant Omnipresent Yes)?”
“To devote your life to the good of all and to the happiness of all is religion. Whatever you do for your own sake is not religion”
“Passionate persistence predicts prosperity.”
“Pressure and resistance from the enemy destroys 97% of people, but it fires up the other 3% to take more focused daily champion action.”
“Let's leave our egos at the door: We know more than we think we know, and less than we know we know.”
“When people start to feed negative thoughts, they start to feed the seed of doubt. The seeds of doubt take root. The root develops into tree of despair.”
“Instead of waiting around for your dream, be relentless and go after it!”
“I will not allow someone else's poor opinion, poor decisions, or poor words to keep my champion imprisoned.”
“Nobody makes a greater mistake than he who does nothing because he could only do a little”
“"Its ok we are human and we make choices but @ the same time you have to be ok with the choices you make in your life don't be ashamed of who you are be ashamed of who you do not allow your self to be". BY: JOSHUA JASON LAIRD”
“Courage is the whisper in the moment of despair that says: "I must go on..."”
“Remember that people will always paint a picture for you to see. There are two types of pictures that a person can draw. A picture of lies & a picture of truth. It's very important that you look and pay attention to the actions of the one who is painting so you will always know the difference.”
“Courage is the whisper in the moment of despair that says: "I must go on..."”
“When I write of hunger, I am really writing about love and the hunger for it, and warmth and the love of it and it is all one.”
“I want to live my life, not record it.”
“There's winners and losers.What do you want to be today?”
“It only takes two to six seconds driving to get off track and physically die. Yet, people are off track in their lives for five, ten, or fifteen years and wonder why they aren’t achieving their dreams.”
“We are kicking the BUT out of every negative habit.”
“There is a thin line between the fragility of the human condition, and its resilience.”
“I love snowboarding, but I would never want to do it competitively or at a professional level. Snowboarding is a spawn of skating, and skating is my passion.”
“the flinch of downfalls are the bullets to person's success ,if they are triggered before his ruins”
“Technology is pulling us away from the basic fundamentals of being a structured, focused, caring, giving, loving champion.”
“I must focus on changing people's lives through my words, my actions, and how I live my life behind the scenes.”
“Life is short. Be swift to love! Make haste to be kind!”
“Children will not remember you for the material things you provided but for the feeling that you cherished them.”
“Find balance and find yourself...you are worth it.”
“Creativity, love and nature are all fuel for the soul.”
“Faster communication does not predict success. It actually predicts quicker failure, because you are distracted by the constant multi-tasking.”
“I have found that I am happiest when I am being creative...letting source/my gifts/whatever you want to call it come through. It is one of the few times when I know I am doing exactly what it is I am supposed to be doing and I can get out of my head and just be at total peace.”
“You must honor your word and stand up for something or else you are going to get run over by everything.”
“Do not go where the path may lead; go instead where there is no path and leave a trail”
“Everything you do will be the first time ever....”
“Guess who what kind of SWAG you have. Your Own and it looks great on you!”
“What do your habits say about you? After all, they predict your level of success in life.”
“If you take the shortcut to success, you will end up getting lost.”
“There is no country like America, I appreciate every single day, every single minute here. I have choices in America. I have choice to do things with my life and get an education”
“Anything can be done you have to have the will”
“What you do behind the scenes, predicts your scenery.”
“Your actions should inspire others to dream.”
“It’s time that you step up to the plate and do what it takes to live a champion life.”
“Faith is the poetry of our dreams and action is the builder of our reality.”
“We are what we give unconditionally of ourselves.”
“losers never lose. because they never start.”
“Open your senses to the world around you and you will know who you are; for you are the creation of what you perceive...”
“You may not be where you want to be, but you better be glad that you aren't where you were.”
“Prayer changes things and people, too”
“The hardest part in life is realizing how simple it is.”
“Our hours in love have wings; in absence, crutches.”
“All is within your grasp. There is one thing that is required of you however, and that is that you reach out and grab it.”
“Success is not instant. The word “instant” is nowhere to be found in the success dictionary.”
“Pay the price the price for success or else you'll fail like 97% of people that simply quit.”
“Nothing Can Make You Suffer, Without Your Silent Permission”
“Never turn to a Master for security for that is one thing he will never give you. He throws you upon the utter insecurity of Life because those who have nothing else find God.”
“All real living is meeting.”
“For happiness is not what makes us grateful. It is gratefulness that makes us happy.”
“Some believe the beautiful, yet infinitesimal gentle flap of a butterfly’s wings can bring about the formation of a powerful hurricane, so I say can the eloquence of a well thought out, simple yet furtive quote bring about great and far-reaching transformations in humanity.”
“Do not be afraid.”
“There is no such thing as a success shortcut. Be willing to take the long road or you will hit a dead end.”
“I love the man that can smile in trouble, that can gather strength from distress, and grow brave by reflection. Tis the business of little minds to shrink, but he whose heart is firm, and whose conscience approves his conduct, will pursue his principles unto death.”
“So many things are possible just as long as you don't know they're impossible.”
“Things which are equally bad are also equally good. Try to look at the bright side of things.
- Humbug”
“The World is a book, and those who do not travel read only a page.”
“Today we start with a new canvas; what do you want to paint, say and share with the world?”
“THE WORLD IS YOURS....RECLAIM IT!!!!”
“Don’t let the problems of today steal your joy of a brighter tomorrow.”
“People who know my problems wonder why I am so happy. They ask, " what's your secret?" I simply say, "I try not to look like my problems.”
“We casually laugh at things, but we do not realize how much a laugh contributes. We turn a blind eye, yet we expect that someone else will address the issues. We try to fit in with it, but it is only to our detriment. Stand for right, as evil is definitely challenging for it to be replaced with wrong. What will you do?"”
“You must immerse yourself in as much self-development information as possible in order to build a rock solid belief structure.”
“One change leads to another one.”
“Why live a mediocre existence when you have the entire world at your fingertips?”
“Life is like a good workout. The most growth happens when you are struggling and you can't expect to make progress without getting a little sore.”
“Believe in yourself, if you don't, no one else will”
“I'm not going to tell you I'll never let you fall. I will let you fall, and I will be right beside you when you pick yourself up.”
“Don’t be frightened by controversy. Instead, face it head-on so your strength is undeniable.”
“The enemy gets its strength from your fear. Rebuke it out of your life by saying your affirmations daily.”
“The enemy gets its strength from your fear. Rebuke it out of your life by saying your affirmations daily.”
“May your affirmations meet your expectations, for it is hesitations that bring on complications.”
“With a hint of good judgment, to fear nothing, not failure or suffering or even death, indicates that you value life the most. You live to the extreme; you push limits; you spend your time building legacies. Those do not die.”
“You must be willing to invest time in your quest to go from where you are now to a living a champion life full of abundance.”
“Say this out loud: "I am a certified champion by birthright. My certificate of life gives me the right to achieve success.””
“I’m so thankful for every hardship, and every ending I’ve endured; if it wasn’t for adversity, I would have never met you. If it weren’t for failures, I would not have gained the tools needed to love you in the manner that you deserve.”
“Put your greatest possession on the tallest shelf so if you fall you have something to reach for.”
“The waste of life occasioned by trying to do too many things at once is appalling”
“Obsession fulfills passion's choice of destiny.”
“The thought and the belief always precede the experience we create.”
“Say this out loud: “I will not let my negative defaults determine my level of success.””
“Failure is guaranteed if you are not committed to success.”
“As long as we feel we have a purpose, surrendering is never an option. Life's journey is long but it requires consistency!”
“Babe Ruth is famous for hitting 714 home runs in his lifetime. Yet he also held a record for the most strikeouts (1330) for decades proudly saying, "Every strike brings me closer to the next home run." Don’t let set backs hold you back.”
“My Mission is to always be creating...to take every opporunity to learn... to inspire others to be everything they can be... to love and be loved...to live life to it's fullest, drinking in every drop that God has poured into this journey for me. To play full on in everything I do, so that when I finally make it home I can walk through the door jump into God's arms and say, "I did it, Daddy! I did it!" - Terry Barnett”
“To like and dislike the same things, that is indeed true friendship”
“The life given us by nature is short, but the memory of a life well spent is eternal.”
“Keep coming back for more until you get what you need.”
“If you don't create and maintain a strong cement foundation of commitment, then the negative weeds will grow in the cracks
between you and your dreams.”
“All you need to do is a little bit of extra everyday to become absolutely EXTRAORDINARY!”
“Your perception is your reality, so get creative!”
“If they say you can't do it you probably already are!”
“Without Dreams, there is no Desire. Without Desire, there is no Idea. Without Idea, there is no Invention.”
“I have been love with you for so long,
Some people just don't like us along
I am still holding on this for so long,
Baby i remember the valentine days we r along"- Hrushikesh Dalai”
“Open your eyes every morning and smile, because you know that you have another day to make a difference of the life of another.”
“The only limits we face are those that are self imposed. The impossible is only what you have not accomplished YET! Be amazing today!”
““My emphasis is upon creating portraits and intuitive works that
project emotional intelligence and upon first glance, speak
directly to the heart."”
“Some people won't love you no matter what you do. Some people won't STOP loving you no matter what you do.”
“Expect that you will achieve greatness. Live a life with no ceiling on it.”
“Champions are created from the insight of the heart.”
“You can't climb the ladder of success dressed with a failure attitude.”
“this verbalism is imprisoned in a prism not one can fathom endowing the idiot with a genius's wisdom”
“echelons mounted rapidly by the underdog as he strives regardless of the doubts pressed upon him by the cynicism of society enabled him to succeed where others made him doubt he could even proceed”
“The value of an item is not its monetary cost but the feeling it evokes within me. I value what is meaningful to me.”
“Enthusiasm is a rare trait for a failure.”
“Your habits predict your future.”
“Security will make you complacent and will ultimately destroy your dreams. If you're secure right now in a job, then you could be in the process of demolishing any hope of achieving
what you really what out of life.”
“Live a life of joy and follow the path that is right for you. Respect yourself.”
“Life is only a dream and we are the imagination of ourselves.”
“No matter who you are, there is always a part somewhere deep inside your heart that wants to feel safe, to feel loved, and to feel respected. Honor that part of yourself today -- and honor it in the hearts of others.”
“How things look on the outside of us depends on how things are on the inside of
us.”
“Don't get distracted by outside appearances. True value can only be calculated from within your heart.”
“The meaning of live, humanities only goal, is to nourish each other collectively and to evolve completely.”
“Preparation predicts the end result.”
“The heart of a champion beats to a different drum.”
“As I walk through the valley of death, I fear not the inevitable; I can smile and truly be happy, because I have found eternal love.”
“We don't steal reputation, but we work hard only”
“You only have to succeed the last time.”
“Imagine how easy your life will BE when you are able to make all decisions with clarity and freedom from fear.”
“its the passion in my heart that makes me crazy
its the passion in my learning that makes me intelligent
its the passion in my athleticism that makes me train.. and
i will always strive for greatness because greatness is who i am.”
“When people ask me about my religion they often ask, "Why do you do these things?" I simply tell them "Why not?"”
“Be happy, be thankful, be YOU. It may seem hard to do, you know, to be happy, and be who you are, but, at least you tried. No regrets. Your happiness is priceless, so don’t ever lose it, especially don’t lose who you are.
~Happy Fbi”
“Adversity is inevitable in life. Don’t run from it, because it will catch up to you. Face it and extinguish it from the very beginning.”
“"True country ain't country when it's "Country". Same goes for rock when it's trying to be "Rock", or Blues when it's just way too "Bluesy". It just loses something. True feelings and emotions don't taste so good when you try and make cookies with them.. Even though they make look good". - Jason Josiah Phillips”
“Preparation builds confidence.”
“I believe in rainbows”
“All mankind... being all equal and independent, no one ought to harm another in his life, health, liberty or possessions.”
“You're only down-and-out if you're still lying on the floor. Get up.”
“If life were easier you wouldn't be happier.”
“To turn your dreams into reality, you must live outside your comfort zone.”
“Expect a miracle. Command the atmosphere of expectation with your powerful faith-filled words and daily focused actions.”
“My words is my Inspiration”
“Great achievements don’t happen to Lucky People it’s people who believe there lucky everyday; who create them”
“I never knew love, until I was willing to die for it.”
“Until you believe enough in yourself, nothing is going to change.”
“Consciousness and awareness are skills that take practice just like everything else.”
“The first time I saw you smile it lit up the room, but the first time I made you smile it lit up my world.”
“Love ever gives. Forgives outlives. And ever stands with open hands. And while it lives, it gives. For this is love's prerogatives / to give, and give, and give.”
“A Person Who Wants To Meet You So That You Can Look Into Their Eyes To See Their Sincerity, Is A Person Who Hopes You Put A Strong Value In Faith.”
“Step into enemy territory with courage and defeat the giant that is in holding your dream captive.”
“Courage is just a word until you take a risk based only on your faith in yourself.”
“Don’t allow the enemy to steal your dreams through doubt, fear and procrastination. Take action today!”
“Where there is love there is life.”
“You'll never know what's up there... if you never dare!”
“I made a decision today to release my champion desire burning inside of my heart.”
“Prosperity is so much more than riches. It is the abundant overflow in every area of your life.”
“Bob Marley stood for universal peace and love. He tried to break racial barriers.”
“The only way to achieve your goals in life, is to do everything you do for the PROCESS of doing it, and not for the GOAL at the end of the process. Or in other words, the goal of every process, should be the process itself.”
“Sometimes the wrong way is the right direction.”
“Learn from Kuntilanak, experienced life as difficult as anything, she can still laugh.”
“Successful person is one who can make money, more than his wife spent.”
“As a child we play with imagination and enjoy life but as an adult when you use your imagination you are put down and ridiculed. Imagine the possibilities- not the impossibilities.”
“It is time that we demolish the enemy of fear!”
“The mindset to make money equals instant failure. Believing that you have the right to earn income so that you can bless others will provide financial freedom for yourself and your family.”
“Honor and integrity are traits that show who you really are when no one else is around.”
“A tribute to all woman who are the strength of life, the rock of her family, the gentle heartbeat to her children, the tears to her parents, the joy to her soul mate, the inspiration at her work, the support and love of her friends, the mystique in society, the leader of love, life and the apple in Adams eye. God introduced us to Eve and although she wasn't perfect we are a tribute to her existence and stem from the power of a WOMAN.”
“Believe in your happy solitude, it's really just a question of your honesty.”
“I'd like to think the best of me was still hiding up in my sleeve.”
“The only thing that happens instantly is the decision to change.”
“You have the right to earn huge income when you pay the price for it.”
“Declare and command: “I expect a supernatural
miracle today, because I've done what I know
will make a difference in people's lives and
I am bettering myself in order to better society.””
“Wimps whine.”
“Declare and command: “I expect a supernatural
miracle today, because I've done what I know
will make a difference in people's lives and
I am bettering myself in order to better society.””
“Love, Arthur, is a poodle's chance of attaining the infinite, and personally I have my pride.”
“I am sad that once I wasn't alive, I am happy that one day ill die.... If you think that should make sense, then I am afraid you are crazy!”
“Life begins with attitude. That's why we're called human beings; not human doings.”
“Examples are not set to follow ... But Its set to Break ..!!”
“Our truest life is when we are in dreams awake.”
“Be as kind as possible, without forfeiting your point.”
“Money is just a small part of success. You can’t buy the most important parts.”
“What do others see when they look at you? If you are strong and confident, then it will radiate from your heart and soul.”
“If you give money to someone that is broke not only financially but also spiritually, emotionally, physically and socially, then you might as well just throw it in the garbage. They simply aren’t ready to receive it!”
“Some people say to me "Are you not feeling alone in this crowd world but I reply them stating I am preparing for hereafter !"”
“Live your last day, today.”
“Repairing computers is like curing cancer, no case is typical and no outcome is the same.”
“If you can, but you do not dare. then scram !”
“Your family legacy is determined by the actions that you take today.”
“Being a leader involves more than just standing at the front of the line.”
“Say it: “I am a champion. I am highly blessed and favored. I am sowing seeds. I am a giver. I am receiving my supernatural miracle NOW!””
“There are no business problems, management problems, leadership problems, or profit problems. There are only people problems.”
“The underlying foundation of procrastination is laziness and lack of belief.”
“To see and hear that's great but to listen means everything”
“Don't be afraid to give up the good to go for the great.”
“Those who walk according to the flesh fail to live by faith!”
“You must speak it and believe it in order to receive it.”
“People Who Seek To Control Others Seek Certainty, And Fear The Longing For Freedom Within Themselves”
“Think outside of the box. Your creativity is not found in your comfort zone.”
“Everything you need is already within you. The beauty of life is that your DESTINY lies always in your hands. The time has come for you to STEP UP and BE GREAT”
“Your dream is the reason that you climb out of bed every morning and face the challenges of the world. Don’t hide under the covers and miss your opportunity to achieve it.”
“We only live once. We all have an expiration date after that we will never come again. I am not saying that to make you sad. I am saying that so you can cherish each moment in your life and be grateful that you are here and you are Special”
“When we are born, we have the same opportunity as everyone else to achieve success. Don’t let your past be the excuse for your failure.”
“Without sacrifice, no victory.”
“Every failure is a stepping stone to success.”
“If you walk like a champion and talk like a champion, then it’s nearly impossible for you not to be champion.”
“Never do or say anthing, with the soul intention of hurting someone else.”
“Love on the inside, shows on the outside.”
“Fail, Fail Again, Fail Better...”
“Life has taught us that love does not consist in gazing at each other, but in looking together in the same direction.”
“Loneliness Is A State Of Mind, Not A Lack Of Physical Presence.You Can Be Lonely Around Others.”
“Life has taught me that respect, caring and love must be shared, for it's only through sharing that friendships are born.”
“Forsake not an old friend, for the new is not comparable to him. A new friend is a new wine; when if is old, thou shalt drink it with pleasure.”
“I've always believed that if you put in the work, the results will come. I don't do things half-heartedly. Because I know if I do, then I can expect half-hearted results.”
“A life lived with uncompromising integrity allows us to not only know what’s right, but to do what’s right, and to see clearly that success is a choice.”
“You can never aim too high. You can never fight too hard.”
“Do not be intimidated(discouraged) by thunder,
You are lightning”
“Let your life be a living scripture and your actions the words of your evangelism”
“It's never to late to find your goal and do your plan to accomplish it.”
“Kegel muscle workout is the new enlightened consciousness.”
“In life you need either inspiration or desperation.”
“Never go into a fight assuming you'll lose.”
“We may have our own likes and dislikes, so to speak. But if we know what True Love is all about we must give enough space to everyone who means good - no matter where s/he is coming from.”
“Choose a job you love and you will never have to work a day in your life.”
“A Quote can change your life.”
“Quotes are nothing but inspiration for the uninspired.”
“When I'm inspired, I get excited because I can't wait to see what I'll come up with next.”
“You learn from enemies what you can't learn from friends”
“When something bad happens, you have 3 choices: You can either let it define you, destroy you, or let it strengthen you.”
“I don't believe in religion, I don't care which color of you are. We are sons and daughters of the almighty God. And we all have the same religion,Humanity,which stands out as the religion of Love,Peace and Happiness.”
“Arise, awake, stop not till the goal is reached. ”
“Success has a price. If you aren't prepared to pay it, you shouldn't expect to achieve it.”
“Your friend is your field which you sow with love and reap with thanksgiving.”
“I'm not a toy, to be used by some boy.”
“When The Demands Of Success Become Very Stressful, Just Remember; If Success Was Easy, Everyone Would Do It.”
“Looking into the night sky to make a wish is a meaningless procedure. By making a wish you distinguish it from a goal. By definition, a goal is what we work toward to make a difference in our lives; while a wish is what we would want to occur. That's why as I gaze into the night sky, I choose the brightest star, not to wish upon, but to set a goal.”
“You Can Live In The misery of the Storm of Life or you can step back and find the beauty in it and
Celebrate Life!”
“To Define Something Is To Both Empower Yourself Over It And Be Imprisoned By Its Limitations.”
“it's been up to me to inspire me.”
“Be the dream you dare to envision.”
“If Truth Causes Chaos And A Lie Keeps Order, Then For The Benefit Of Society, It Is Better To Believe A Lie.”
“Often my creative life has seemed like a long tunnel, dark and damp. And sometimes I wondered whether I could live through it. But I did!”
“If your actions inspire others to dream more, learn more, do more and become more, you are a leader.”
“Sooner you start working as an entrepreneur , larger the attempts you have for taking risks and better are your chances to become successful in comparison of others.”
“Those with an imagination will not go blind if they lose their eyesight.”
“You May Silence The Words Of A Person By Assaulting Them, But You Can't Silence Their Thoughts.”
“Life in the present is a present; life is Living The Dream.”
“When we shift perception to appreciation, we begin to take our power away from the mind and into consciousness, where love is waiting.”
“The desire for agreement from others is a subtle form of fear, and this runs counter to who you really are.”
“When you mind is made up, there's no point trying to change it, but YOU still have a choice.”
“Babies are such a nice way to start people”
“If YOU want to do something and your mind says do it, then do so. If YOU want to do something and your mind says don't, then do so.”
“Your action from a choice within, which requires no reason, no content of thought, is pure creation.”
“Your action from a choice within, which requires no reason, no content of thought, is pure creation.”
“With mindful awareness, YOU are not your thoughts unless YOU choose them.”
“Fatherhood is pretending the present you love most is soap-on-a-rope.”
“Bad things happen to those who wait.”
“the eyes are the window of the heart, and the heart is the house for the soul”
“Love begins at home, and it is not how much we do... but how much love we put in that action.”
“Civilization Is A Set Of Differences Placed In A Box Of Compromises And Wrapped In Similarity”
“Tis not the storms and heavy tides, that push us to and fro, "tis the course we steer her by that determines where we go...”
“We cannot seek achievement for ourselves and forget about progress and prosperity for our community…Our ambitions must be broad enough to include the aspirations and needs of others, for their sake and for our own.”
“A Society Is On A Downward Spiral When Its Rules Are Written Based On Convenience Rather Than On Moral Principle.”
“A Person Who Is Obsessed With Seeking The Truth Of The World Is A Person Who Is Unsure Of Who They Are.”
“I cannot promise that we will find the truth to every question, but I can promise that the truth is out there.”
“Luminaries play to a darkened sky. Each life is a star in the night’s lullaby.”
“Tell me, what is it you plan to do
with your one wild and precious life?”
“I WILL STAND REGAL IN ALL MY HUMILIATION.”
“Inspire with Love.”
“I want to spend my life, breathing & living; living & loving; loving & laughing; laughing & smiling; smiling & inspiring; inspiring & creating; creating & accepting; accepting & forgiving.”
“Society Can Create All The Rules They Want, But The Person With The Gun Is In Charge.”
“Life Is A Series Of School Classrooms. If You Do Your Homework You'll Be Ready To Move To The Next Lesson.”
“Every atom has infinite possibilities. That means, since you're made of billions of atoms, you have infinite posibities. You can be what you want to be. You would know you reached a posibility when you're happy... but wait, there's more! That means there are still billion more ways to be happy. Fly, sail and be brave...”
“Be content to seem what you really are”
“I never loved another person the way I loved myself.”
“Be All You Can Be, But It's Most Important To Be Right.”
“When I Was Young I Was Barely Able To Tolerate The Stupidity Of The Old Folks. Now Old And More Experienced, I Find Myself To Be As Stupid As The Other Old Folks.”
“If You Don't Think That Time Plays An Important Part In Your Life, Then, Ask Yourself; Do You Want To Die Now-Or Later.”
“Enough mailing list chatter, covention speeches, rallies, and articles. No cause can be advanced by words alone, follow through by action, or save your breath.”
“The greatest people are great because they chose to be different. Embrace your individuality.”
“We are not in need of more social commentators but social entrepreneurs. Opinions are a dime a dozen, creative workable solutions are hard to come by.”
“If you understand who YOU are, you will live and look through life inside-out”
“One hour of right-down love is worth an age of dully living on.”
“The miracles start happen when you uderstand that nothing can prevail God's plan in your life”
“It's the little that I need to go beyond my limitations,and that is your honesty and love”
“Today is the begining, yesterday is gone, and tomorrow may never come... So go for it today”
“Love is like the sun: has its inner energy source that shines on you”
“someone's not someone”
“Hatred does not cease through hatred at any time. Hatred ceases through love. This is an unalterable law.”
“I have accomplished my dreams, that will bring peace to my mind and happiness to my sol.”
“A Nation Without Shame Is A Nation Without Honor”
“Science defies Religion, Religion defines Politics.”
“I Can Defend Against Your Hate, But Your Indifference Leaves Me feeling Helpless”
“So what if the experts disagree with you. They might be wrong.”
“You can spend your time appearing to be right or you can just work to fix what you think is wrong.”
“Oh, when will we overcome all these difficulties? And yet it's good that we have to surmount them, since it makes the end that much more beautiful.”
“There is NO REWND on the VHS of life”
“I know that sometimes it seems that words are cheap and actions meaningless but my heart is in it.”
“Little victories lead to bigger victories that affect the battles that eventually win the war. Winning begins small!”
“The masses of people wait to see things before they believe; the master believes things before they see it.”
“If in life you feel like a stone tossed about in stormy sea, remember that the rough and jagged edges of a stone are smoothed away by the rough waters. It was a small smooth stone that defeated a giant. When your edges are gone what will you be able to conquer with your life?”
“Remembering where you came from doesn't mean forgetting where you want to go.”
“There are two sorts of romantics: those who love, and those who love the adventure of loving”
“Courage is what it takes to stand up and speak; courage is also what it takes to sit down and listen.”
“They do not love that do not show their love. The course of true love never did run smooth. Love is a familiar. Love is a devil. There is no evil angel but Love.”
“Passion is a wick that can't shine enough without (t)oil”
“The best way to know God is to love many things.”
“Fear is the sum of our own insecurities, fear no one, fear nothing.”
“The meaning of life is to exist, to exist is to have meaning, to have meaning is to obtain the truth, to obtain the truth is to live life.”
“NOT ONLY SWEAT EVEN MY BLOOD”
“The decisions that you make, and actions that you take, will reveal a life full of happiness, or an existence riddled with heartache.”
“A problem is only a problem if you're affected by it.”
“To be rich in admiration and free from envy, to rejoice greatly in the good of others, to love with such generosity of heart that your love is still a dear possession in absence or unkindness - these are the gifts which money cannot buy”
“Man's task is simple. He should cease letting his existence be a thoughtless accident.”
“Keep a green tree in your heart and perhaps the singing bird will come.”
“Besides the noble art of getting things done there is a nobler art of leaving things undone…. The wisdom of life consists in the elimination of nonessentials.”
“The pain of regret is much greater than the pain of loss.”
“Life is tenacious; it is endowed with the impulse to survive and the power to heal. Ultimately, it is we ourselves who cure our ailments, and the decision to undertake this battle arises from within.”
“Humility could take you any and everywhere, arrogance always takes you nowhere.”
“Sometimes one is born with wisdom; i mean it's very unlikely that the three wise men had masters degrees.”
“Be wary of smiles and handshakes that come not after you're seen/met but after you're heard of.”
“He who made it by struggling, made it the best.”
“With every breath I take brings me closer to the day I will no longer be able to breath. I will embrace my new air”
“in life their are many things to take but for each thing we have to pay something...
and
the thing we get by struggling we come to know its value.. but if we get it free of cost we never appreciates...... :(”
“Follow your heart and you shall not be lead.”
“The ultimate lesson all of us have to learn is unconditional love, which includes not only others but ourselves as well”
“One word frees us of all the weight and pain in life. That word is love.”
“The Universal Law of Willpower declares that if you lack the WILL, you will fail.”
“Slow and steady just makes you Fat.”
“Some desires are best not said; some trials are best not fed. Some memories best to forget; some sorrows best not lament. So where we could barely cope, we can finally dare to hope.”
“He's the type of guy that you wished was sitting at your Thanksgiving table every year because you know that he's going to just brighten everyone's day. He's a wonderful guy.”
“Never boast that "After all I made him or her" for no man has the power to make another if providence has not granted him the grace to do so.”
“Man made fire, man makes fire, man stops fire.”
“Anybody can try hard when the crowd is cheering. It takes guts to grind it out when no one is around to see you do the right thing.”
“The quickest way to fail is to put off until later what needs to be done right now. That's also what happen naturally -- planning to do it all later.”
“Being Happy is a personal business. That means it's OUR responsibility to make ourselves happy. Don't expect people to give this to you.”
“It is by going down into the abyss that we recover the treasures of life. Where you stumble, there lies your treasure.”
“Your mind is more powerful than what you think”
“Success in life is very sweet if you really perspire for it”
“Not everything that is faced can be changed. But nothing can be changed until it is faced.”
“The very first thing to do to aim your goals in life is plan”
“Your Victory is not only determined by how you end your fight, but what counts is how you fight your fight to the end.”
“I'm getting a wrinkle above my eyebrow because I just can't stop lifting it, and I love that you know.”
“Wisdom came into my life the moment I realized I knew nothing.”
“in the night; when all is still that one unknown sound is heard, the sound of one's own reality”
“Life is really simple, but we insist on making it complicated.”
“Let brotherly love continue.”
“Negligence of one becomes the Intelligence of other.”
“The right destination can make any difficult journey bearable.”
“Sometimes doing what's right isn't much fun right now.”
“Anybody can do the easy stuff, but it's the hard stuff that ultimately determines how successful you become.”
“Life is a Learning Process, Learning is a Life-Long Process; You can't separate them.”
“Every ideas in Human History has taught us how to think and act, but with every ideas their is always a contrast to what one might believe in. Their is never a subtlety or a sound mind that everyone might agreed on but stand firm in what your believes are, if you know your standing for the truth. No one needs to know why and not everyone needs to know.”
“silence in the dark;
seduction of the night”
“Love the animals: God has given them the rudiments of thought and joy untroubled”
“The greatest battle you will ever win is the one with yourself.”
“I've learned that no matter what happens, or how bad it seems today, life does go on, and it will be better tomorrow.”
“You have got the power-you always have...you always will.”
“I've learned that you shouldn't go through life with a catcher's mitt on both hands; you need to be able to throw some things back...”
“Righteousness is good character, and sin is that which revolves in your heart and which you do not want people to know.”
“Anyone who has never made a mistake has never tried anything new.”
“I like to playfully gnaw on the hand that feeds me; sometimes it even gives me treats”
“Don't let what you don't have, destroy what you do have.”
“Few of us know what we are capable of doing...we have never pushed ourselves hard enough to find out.”
“Knowledge Minus Ego Equals Wisdom”
“Rational Thought is Knowledge Without Bias.”
“The source for any inspiration comes from sights, sounds, smell, taste, and touch.”
“Luck is where the effort is”
“Anyone who has never made a mistake has never tried anything new.”
“I believe in the immeasurable power of love; that true love can endure any circumstance and reach across any distance.”
“The way you live your day is a sentence in the story of your life. Each day you make the choice whether the sentence ends with a period, question mark, or exclamation point.”
“Stop pointing fingers and placing blame on others. Your life can only change to the degree that you accept responsibility for it.”
“Spirituality is the poetry of our experience. Science is the gauge of our reality. Together, they create the essence of our humanity.”
“A man's desire is to find a good woman, that can make him smile, a woman that can understand him and not judge him, that can love him at his worst and not hate him for his faults. He wants a woman to teach him right from wrong, to guide him when he is lost, and to praise him he is right and thank him for everything he's done. If you can do that for him, he will love you for ever, just a like a child's love for their mom.”
“Why is life a battlefield.? Is it really necessary to Bleed Sweat or Die to be heard.?
Some say its for you to grow, but how much growing can a person take. If thats the case, why does everything in life have to be about growth? can't for once can't life be smooth sailing?
If blood, sweat and tears are the essence of life, then whats the point?”
“When normal people see a disaster they run away from it, but when a hero sees it they run to help.”
“A quitter always seems to have a good excuse why 'giving up' was the smart choice. But you'll never hear a superstar telling you that they wish they had given up earlier.”
“Even the littlest angel can be heard”
“Little angels above delivering magic and dreams”
“Enjoy everything the day has to offer, for tomorrows never come.”
“Very little of the great cruelty shown by men can really be attributed to cruel instinct. Most of it comes from thoughtlessness or inherited habit. Extract from 'Memories of childhood and youth.'”
“In a war, whoever wins does not necessarily shows or even proves, that they were right. whoever wins doesn't make them right. No one should criticize those at war for both sides have losses and if anyone should, its just an insult to injury.”
“There are times when failure seems the only option. It is then, at this moment, that you must not give up the battle.”
“If you have to give up, give up your fear.”
“Living The Dream is a metaphor for living happily in the moment; if you’re not Living The Dream, you’re dead already.”
“Just listen to your heart, it'll never lie to you.”
“Its nice to be the SPECIAL ONCE WHEN U HAVE THE TALENT.”
“Believe the best of others and the will believe the best of themselves.”
“Everyone chases after happiness, not noticing that happiness is right at their heels.”
“Celebrate kindness. Communicate intention. Concentrate effort.”
“Determine never to be idle. No person will have occasion to complain of the
want of time who never loses any. It is wonderful how much can be done if we
are always doing.”
“You can choose to make this day worth living.”
“Sometimes, the only thing that gets you out of bed in the morning is that one person who can brighten your day like no other.”
“My love for you is like a rushing waterfall, it's pure and overflowing.”
“And if you stop and think about it You won't believe it's true: That all the love you've been giving Has all been meant for you”
“Let the first words that comes out of your mind everyday be positive words,for those positive words have the capacity to impact your day.”
“Always believe in your beliefs,for it is onlY your beliefs that can propel your dreams to reality.”
“My conscience is my only judge.”
“Eveythin Depends 0n 0ur 0wn Way Of Perception,
But Never Forget The Right And Literal Thing!!!
**”
“Try To Stay At Your Own Side!!!
When You 'll Update Your Problems Front Of Everyone,
Many Of Them 'll Going To Like It,But None Of Then Are Going To Solve It!!!
**”
“Six pack abs won't attract girls to you, good morals will.”
“To see me does not necessarily mean to see my face; to understand my thought is to have seen me.”
“The best preservative to keep the mind on health is the faithful admonition of a friend.”
“A face full of smiles doesn't signify that I don't have pain,I cud be even sad without shedding a drop of tear”
“If inspiration does not find you today, routine will.”
“It's what you do when you're 'not feeling like it' that ultimately determines if you achieve your goals or not. Anybody can what's easy.”
“Being the leader doesn't give you the permission to be a bully. Respect and inspiration work better than fear and chaos.”
“If you have to tell people that you're the one in charge, you're probably not...”
“Trying is 'winning in the moment'...”
“The manner of one's art is the banner of one's heart”
“People grow old only by deserting their ideals, Macarthur had written. Years may wrinkle the skin, but to give up interest wrinkles the soul. You are as young as your faith, as old as your doubt; as young as your self-confidence, as old as your fear; as young as your hope as old as your despair. In the central place of every heart there is a recording chamber. So long as it receives messages of beauty, hope, cheer and courage, so long are you young. When your heart is covered with the snows of pessimism and the ice of cynicism, then, and then only, are you grown old. And then, indeed as the ballad says, you just fade away.”
“God provides the wind, but man must raise the sails.”
“God gave us hands, not to put inside our pockets, but to extend and reach for more hands. Connect… Keep connecting… you’ll be happy :)”
“Giving is the heartbeat of success.”
“Ambition ans WillPower is the key to success. You got to take all necessary steps to make it happen. If that means to relocate, go back to school,or travel a few extra miles.Do what u need 2 do and stop feeling sorry 4 yourself. Remember dont noone owe you nothing u r responsible 4 your own success. Every1 is equal we r different by the choices we make. So do whatever it takes 2 reach your success.”
“The first thing you should share with anyone is love.”
“Use what talents you have; the woods would have little music if no birds sang their song except those who sang best.”
“We are influenced by what we experience, but defined by what we do.”
“Things happen beyond our control and understanding but there is great reasoning behind every dark day and time is the only true revealed of reasons.”
““I think it was the first time in my life I ever felt like I looked “good”. Do you know what I mean? That nice feeling when you look in the mirror, and your hair’s right for the first time in your life? I don’t think we should base so much on weight, muscles, and a good hair day, but when it happens, it’s nice. It really is.””
“YOU ARE THE ONLY FUEL TO YOUR INBURNT FIRE.
OTHERS WOULD SURELY INTERVENE TO MAKE THEMSELVES WARM....BUT....NO ONE IS GOING TO TAKE CARE OF THOSE BURNING STICKS !”
“I love argument, I love debate. I don't expect anyone just to sit there and agree with me, that's not their job.”
“The amount of eccentricity in a society has generally been proportional to the amount of genius, mental vigor, and moral courage it contained. That so few now dare to be eccentric marks the chief danger of the time.”
“The pupil who is never required to do what he cannot do, never does what he can do.”
“If thou must love me, let it be for naught except for love's sake only.”
“Kindness is free; freely share kindess”
“Love is blind.”
“Just because you have authority doesn't mean you are a leader.”
“'Seek' happiness and you won't find it, 'Find' happiness and you'll get it.”
“When you believe you "can't" you always seem to find a way to live up to those expectations.”
“No person who is a failure every regrets working too hard for too long. It's always another excuse. Someone else's problem. That's probably the problem, isn't it?”
“It's not what you are willing to do that will make you successful. It's what you are willing to do WITHOUT until you get there.”
“If we knew each other's secrets, what comforts we should find.”
“Dwell in possibility.”
“Time is the greatest teacher of all time.”
“Our Greatest triumph is not in failing, but rising everytime we fall!”
“The only way to move forward is to pass failure down the road, and continue to success!”
“Our thoughts create our experiences. Saying our intentions outloud focuses our thoughts. There is power in the spoken word!”
“Every Journey has its toll and it is within your ability to complete each transaction. Know where your going, remember where you came from, and everything else will fall into place.”
“Got the will, finding the way.”
“When I look into the future, it's so bright it burns my eyes.”
“Turn your wounds into wisdom.”
“Rare as is true love, true friendship is rarer.”
“The whole point of being alive is to evolve into the complete person you were intended to be.”
“Every one of us gets through the tough times because somebody is there, standing in the gap to close it for us.”
“Christmas will always be as long as we stand heart to heart and hand in hand.”
“When a man is in love he endures more than at other times; he submits to everything”
“Understand that the right to choose your own path is a sacred privilege. Use it. Dwell in possibility.”
“No good friends, no bad friends; only people you want, need to be with. People who build their houses in your heart”
“Laughter is instant sunshine!”
“Life is a wonderful administration of the heart, the mind and the soul. By listening to your heart and visualizing with your mind, you can come into alignment with your soul.”
“Be fit. You can’t go the distance in your business when you can’t go the distance with your body.”
“Constant Criticism Kills Love...Kindness Helps it Blossom and Grow.”
“Compromise = compromise! We cannot support justifying wrong with wrong, especially when enlightened of them!”
“May your love soar on the wings of a dove in flight”
“You give people power over you when you believe what they say and act in accordance to that belief.”
“May we constantly remember, before our God and Father, your work produced by faith, your labor prompted by love, and your endurance inspired by hope in our Lord Jesus Christ.
~Amen~”
“If you're tired and can't take it anymore, wake up and start Living The Dream.”
“Live, let live, and love. the rest will fall into place.”
“We all live with the terminal disease called Life.”
“The best way to assure your dreams come true is to wake up, write them down, and start hacking away at them one baby step at a time. Do not wait for tomorrow; tomorrows aren’t guaranteed to any of us... Remember this always, Family: We Are LIVING THE DREAM.”
“If you understand my silence that means you are my true friend.”
“I guess I do have a little punk side in me; it’s the unconventional side of me that forges forward with no fear in what sometimes appears to be an impossible task. I prefer to think of it as being a vanguard.”
“Making a good impression for any business meeting begins the moment you enter the building lobby until you exit back onto the street.”
“Not even the strongest man can climb the highest mountain, without climbing down a few times on his way to the top of the World.”
“The diamond ring isn’t found in the sand, unless you look for it.”
“I daydream while staring at the ocean; I make dreams come true while staring at you.”
“Yesterday's greatness is not enough for tomorrow's success”
“pain and sorrow can neither be shared nor can be sympathized
they can only shunned away for the moment or can be empathized”
“The Eagle is the only bird that doesn't fly away from a Storm, it Spreads its Wings and Rises above the Wind and the Storm carries it to a Higher Level....Spread Your Wings and Soar”
“Time will teach you”
“When I walk my Journey I have to walk on the path of thrones with my bare foot, my foot bleeds and pains but the delightful day will come,the pain I have gone through will be nothing when I see the millions have their first smile of their life and am the reason behind it.”
“I'm a peacemaker, but I'm not a doormat. - LM Jones”
“Of the five vital principles, Love is the foremost. It is Love that flows as the under-current for the other four values. How does it flow this way?”
“Success demands planning and perspective and most importantly passion.”
“Ignore anything that distracts you from achieving your ambitious plans for doing something amazing.”
“There is no middle ground when taking the hill. You either stay in the foxhole or fight to the finish. Turning back just gets you shot in the back - and no one wants to finish as a coward.”
“There is no middle ground when taking the hill. You either stay in the foxhole or fight to the finish. Turning back just gets you shot in the back - and no one wants to finish as a coward.”
“There is no middle ground when taking the hill. You either stay in the foxhole or fight to the finish. Turning back just gets you shot in the back - and no one wants to finish as a coward.”
“I do not love the bright sword for it's sharpness, nor the arrow for it's swiftness, nor the warrior for his glory. I love only that which they defend”
“To truly appreciate great victory, you must first experience defeat.”
“If you choose to only do one thing today, choose to love.”
“I'm mentally inspired by my past cuz its shows me wat not to do to creat a gud future for myself”
“Plan for the future, because that is where you are going to spend the rest of your
life.”
“Nothing more certain than change.”
“It's time to stop Understanding. Innerstand and thus Overstand.”
“The true test of manhood is not age or life experiences, but when you stop looking for solutions and become that of which you are looking for...”
“When you get right down to the root of the meaning of the word "succeed," you find that it simply means to follow through.”
“'I just look over there for inspiration, motivation. You know, sometimes when I'm a little bit flat, they get me going.”
“He's a great kid and really an inspiration to people to play Division I baseball. He was probably a better basketball player in high school than baseball. But he has made himself a very good Division I catcher.”
““life can be shorter than we think and it's better to at least learn to be happy even if just a little””
“Money is simply an amount; Love is paramount.”
“And again: No more gods! no more gods! Man is King, Man is God! - But the great Faith is Love!”
“Sad but inspirational”
“Death instantaneously comes to all whom aren’t Living The Dream.”
“A human being feels able and competent only so long as he is permitted to contribute as much as, or more, than he has contributed to him.”
“It's all about motivation and inspiration.”
“Walking on water is easy to do, when I’m Living The Dream hand in hand with you.”
“They are always saying God loves us. If that's love I'd rather have a bit of kindness.”
“Logic ridicules love, and love smiles knowingly at the whole foolishness of logic. ”
“the true leader takes charge for the greater good despite being more scared than you are”
“Those who can see tomorrow might offend people stuck looking at today.”
“the lines have been drawn, either whine or take the challenge, just not both”
“When someone does something good, applaud! You will make two people happy.”
“Jill Fraser was one of the greatest forces in British theatre. She was an inspiration to all my work and a rock whenever times were hard. I have never met a more courageous person, or somebody who managed to focus with such energy and determination on putting challenging work on the stage. As a young director she took a risk on me and has stuck by me even when I made mistakes. Loyalty such as this is rare. The sense of loss at this time is immeasurable.”
“let my actions get your attention but let my intentions win your heart”
“The path of life moves forward as an ode to the past”
“The only person who cannot be helped is that person who blames others.”
“That perfect tranquillity of life, which is nowhere to be found but in retreat, a faithful friend and a good library”
“Every tongue on the planet still speaks the name of Jesus, whether it's in a curse or a praise, even the Chinese! Tell me of another, who has managed to do so and the next time that I hit my thumb with a hammer... I'll shout out that name instead”
“Friendship is an arrangement by which we undertake to exchange small favors for big ones.”
“Thus to be independent of public opinion is the first formal condition of
achieving anything great.”
“Someone once asked me if spirituality could lesson our suffering and here is what I told-em; it didn't keep Jesus off the cross... but it sure came in handy at the resurrection”
“I pray that faith will unlock what I believe.”
“Theres not one day where I realize how thankful I should be. For what I have, for what I will have and for what I need.”
“When a birthing mother's water-sack breaks does the one being born think this is a good thing or a bad thing? If you ask me I'd say, hey... no body likes to be rousted”
“all achievement... riches.. have their begin with idea.”
“A friend is someone who sees through you and still enjoys the view.”
“And enough for me that when my hand touched your shoulder, you leaned on me; and when you felt me slip away, you called my name.”
“Wealth is the product of man's ability to think.”
“By him just being alive is inspiration enough.”
“I would hope that my candidacy would inspire others to get involved.”
“Competing is a privilege and the outcome should be appreciated without regret or objection.”
“Character is built through trying, succeeding, and failing. The attempt for achievement is the building block of character.”
“Dignity and Respect has to do with what you are ready, willing, and able to accept
within yourself and in accepting to be able to give others. It is your personal
power to make a difference by being true to the best within you and letting that
truth shine through your words and actions."
Gail Pursell Elliott”
“The immeasurable daily act of living out your dreams is the only existence you should strive for; Living The Dream is a lifestyle. Learn it, live it, love it.”
“You must lose a fly to catch a trout”
“Good character is more to be praised than outstanding talent. Most talents are to some extent a gift. Good character, by contrast, is not given to us. We have to build it piece by piece by thought, choice, courage and determination.”
“Don't be afraid of the space between your dreams and reality. If you can dream
it, you can make it so.”
“You never lose by loving. You always lose by holding back.”
“Your Belly Button is a symbol of "your past life" and the mark of an extraordinary survivor. Coincidentally, the word "GRAVE" means; to mark, or engrave. Gravestones are "Marking Stones". Belly Buttons and Gravestones are marks that are left behind after a passing”
“Wherever we are and whatever we are doing, it is possible to learn something
that can enrich our lives and the lives of others... No one's education is ever
complete.”
“Birth actually seems like death to the one who is about to be born because in childbearing; there are many that do not survive. For them, birth is death. Your Bellybutton is living proof that you had to survive death in order to get here... and there you were thinking, that your Bellybutton was nothing more than a dust collector.”
“"Dying and being born are the very same thing but it's the outcome of the act that determines how we choose to use the words".”
“BELLY BUTTONS & GRAVESTONES;
You leave behind the only world that you have ever known ...
And blindly enter into another totally different one when you are born. You will repeat this remarkable process again when you die!”
“The most rewarding things you do in life are often the ones that look like they cannot be done.”
“Since the launch of Scion three years ago, designers have learned a great deal about what inspires and motivates Scion buyers through its unique vehicle lineup and instilled them into the FUSE.”
“It's better to have competed and lost than to never have competed at all.”
“Losing in competition is not a sin, never competing
offers no benefit.”
“You can preach a better sermon with your life than with your lips.”
“You can never win or lose if you don't run the race.”
“Believe you are, and you will be!”
“His failure is not failure whom God leads.”
“Our greatest lack is not money for any undertaking, but rather ideas, If the ideas are good, cash will somehow flow to where it is needed.”
“Some day surely the world too shall be saved
from death by Love.”
“As Knowledge grows, Light flames up from within.”
“Blessed are those who can give without remembering and take without forgetting.”
“Each victory gained over oneself means new
strength to gain more victories.”
“Love isn't promised to everyone, in fact it's hard to even find. But those who dream & wait threw the obstacles are usually the one's still standing hand & hand with love.”
“Heaven's call is rare, rarer the heart that heeds.”
“Not every one of our desires can be immediately gratified. We've got to learn to
wait patiently for our dreams to come true, especially on the path we've chosen.”
“There never was a great soul that did not have some divine inspiration.”
“They're using the hurricane as their inspiration to win for the season so we're going to have to be fired up for them and force our will on them.”
“Readiness to fall is the confidence to walk.”
“A COWARD MAN DOESN'T KNOW HOW TO TREASURE A WOMANS HEART”
“Tell that someone that you love, just what you're thinking of, If tomorrow never comes.”
“Down by 20 pts to BG at halftime, Toledo Coach Amstutz said, "We're coming back", and QB #7 Bruce Gradkowski said, " Twenty points is nothing, we're gonna win"”
“Revolution is a serious thing, the most serious thing about a revolutionary's life. When one commits oneself to the struggle, it must be for a lifetime.”
“In interactions with others, instead of trying to be right, why don’t we try being
kind?”
“He really inspired me to want to write for the cello.”
“Vision without action is just a thought”
“When dreaming we dare to do anything the dream brings along.
When we dare is not necessarily when dreaming, it only means we are trying to attain what we aim for and wished our dreams could come true.”
“If you are defeated today don't let yourself down,it will be balanced by the success tomorrow.Conservation of energy.”
“Effort is the seed from which success blooms.”
“There is a great relation between Proximity... Money... Satisfaction... & Promotion. We want all; but in practical all are inversely proportional with reference to time. Need for one, may lead to devastation of others.”
“Education is nice it make people respect your idears. I have seen it working for me and I have realized that Education is an advantage to the poor. Today I know many things like this "The rich and poor have one thing in common. The LORD is the maker of them all. Proverbs 22:2"
Be glad of life because it gives you the chance to love, work, play, and look up the stars.”
“Learn to see things as they really are, not as we imagine they are."
Vernon Howard”
“My original hero, the guy that I was really inspired by, was Prince Buster, and he had the Prince Buster record label. He put out his own records, and he put out other people's record. Growing up in high school, I was blown away by Prince Buster.”
“No trumpets sound when the important decisions of our life are made. Destiny is made known silently.”
“I'm sure God's hands are rather large, so who knows what they could be holding for me....”
“Free love? as if love is anything but free. Man has bought brains, but all the millions in the world have failed to buy love.”
“The obvious is that which is never seen until someone expresses it simply.”
“I don't have clothe , I don't have money, I sleep without eating I go to school without eating breakfast, for now I'm a student and I'm financially poor but ,the only money I have is the one I'm going to earn after passing those test. In future I'm going to be successful.”
“Heigh ho! sing, heigh ho! unto the green holly:
Most friendship is feigning, most loving mere folly:
Then heigh ho, the holly!
This life is most jolly.”
“Be Prepared!”
“Science will never be able to reduce the value of a sunset to arithmetic. Nor can it reduce friendship or statesmanship to a formula.”
“Waiting for someone else
to make you Successful is the best way
to Fail”
“Humor is life -- you are made to smile, and to be truly happy, so why not just be that?”
“True friendship ought never to conceal what it thinks.”
“Listen to the mustn'ts, child. Listen to the don'ts. Listen to the shouldn'ts, the impossibles, the won'ts. Listen to the never haves, then listen close to me... Anything can happen, child. Anything can be.”
“Words are things, and a small drop of ink, falling like dew upon a thought, produces that which makes thousands, perhaps millions, think”
“The starting point of all achievement is desire. Weak desire brings weak results.”
“I was just looking for a new sound, a new inspiration,”
“It definitely inspires me to try to make it back so I can do a better program.”
“There was inspiration there. It was a movement with heart and soul that fought back against corporations doing harm to animals and the environment.”
“Being a defensive lineman, Reggie is one of the guys I always watched. And he was an inspiration off the field, too. We lost a great football player today, and we lost a great citizen.”
“Big Dave Ostrander is a favorite who really knows how to excite and inspire participants.”
“A lot of my inspiration came from the kids. But then other things; like the news, everything is pretty inspiring these days.”
“Friendship is a plant of slow growth and must undergo and withstand the shocks of adversity before it is entitled to the appellation.”
“Be careful what you water your dreams with. Water them with worry and fear and you will produce weeds that choke the life from your dream. Water them with optimism and solutions and you will cultivate success. Always be on the lookout for ways to turn a problem into an opportunity for success. Always be on the lookout for ways to nurture your dream.”
“One way to get the most out of life is to look upon it as an adventure”
“If one dream should fall and break into a thousand pieces, never be afraid to pick one of those pieces up and begin again.”
“After climbing a great hill, one only finds that there are many more hills to climb.”
“An Argument needs no reason; Nor any friendship.”
“Our real duty is always found running in the direction of our worthiest desires.”
“There can be no keener revelation of a society's soul than the way in which it treats its children.”
“I learned that courage was not the absence of fear, but the triumph over it. The brave man is not he who does not feel afraid, but he who conquers that fear.”
“Our aspirations are our possibilities.”
“If you want to be happy for a year, plant a garden; If you want to be happy for life, plant a tree.”
“If yet again you are misunderstood.. Continue to thrive as a stripeless zebra amongst the zeal. Misunderstood yet purposeful! And kuishi tofauti!”
“when any one ask me what earned in my life
i will reply a "SAND GRAIN" of place in her heart that "I LOVEU........."”
“Live your life each day as you would climb a mountain. An occasional glance
towards the summit keeps the goal in mind, but many beautiful scenes are to be
observed from each new vantage point.”
“I think for decades she's been an inspiration to the women who have entered journalism, but I also think she's been a good role model for decades of investigative reporters regardless of gender. She not only became this pioneer among women journalists, but she also carved out and established this niche of journalism called investigative reporting.”
“All is possible if God Touch is There.”
“To become God in Life is Man's only Manhood.”
“You are always a valuable, worthwhile human being -- not because anybody says so, not because you're successful, not because you make a lot of money -- but because you decide to believe it and for no other reason.”
“Looking back where me, myself and I traveled along; helps the decision forward.”
“Almost always, the creative dedicated minority has made the world better.”
“It were all one
That I should love a bright particular star
And to think to wed it, he is so above me.”
“Wrong is wrong, no matter who does it or who says it.”
“You are playing so bad, that I would rather lose my thumb than see you guys play anymore.”
“I love running cross country....On a track, I feel like a hamster.”
“The more you can dream the more you can do.”
“If you're going to be stupid you had better be tough.”
“In the End, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the silence of our friends.”
“"Stay" is a charming word in a friend's vocabulary.”
“To aim at the best and to remain essentially ourselves is one and the same thing”
“Jiri is an inspiration. To have a guy with what he's going through and he's still laughing and joking -- it's great to have him on the road.”
“He has been inspiring to the whole team. He never got down when he wasn't playing. He just kept working hard in practice to improve.”
“Love is the voice under all silences, the hope which has no opposite in fear; the strength so strong mere force is feebleness: the truth more first than sun, more last than star...”
“A happy woman is one who has no cares at all; a cheerful woman is one show has cares but doesn't let them get her down.”
“Life…can only be understood backwards…”
“For every pot there is a lid”
“Love expands.”
“Perfection is achieved, not when there is nothing left to add, but when there is
nothing left to take away.”
“The hurricanes actually inspired her to do these wonderful broken branches with fruit hanging off of them.”
“I never look at the masses as my responsibility; I look at the individual. I can only love one person at a time - just one, one, one. So you begin. I began - I picked up one person. Maybe if I didn't pick up that one person, I wouldn't have picked up forty-two thousand....The same thing goes for you, the same thing in your family, the same thing in your church, your community. Just begin - one, one, one.”
“When you're positive, be positive in a dreamy way.. when you're negative, be negative in a realistic way.”
“Spread love everywhere you go: First of all in your own house... let no one ever come to you without leaving better and happier. Be the living expression of God's kindness; kindness in your face, kindness in your eyes, kindness in your smile, kindness.”
“Contrary to what we've been told about how to gain success in life is that 'sucking up' to those who can benefit you is one of the most successful methods. Another method to success is the art of being nonchalantly greedy.”
“However many holy words you read,However many you speak,What good will they do you If you do not act on upon them?”
“You cannot have success without the failures.”
“Those guys will be Seahawks forever. I know that they've been an inspiration to us, just the standard that they set years ago, and hopefully they can feel a part of this.”
“The groups, though, were my inspiration way back then. I liked Frankie Lyman and the Teenagers.”
“Fashion your life as a garland of beautiful deeds.”
“The reason people find it so hard to be happy is that they always see the past better than it was, the present worse than it is, and the future less resolved than it will be”
“Without discipline, there's no life at all.”
“Figuring out the answer to a problem is only half of the solution in business. Execution matters as well.”
“There are three classes of people: those who see. Those who see when they are shown. Those who do not see.”
“They understood the theology of their bodies, ... The call to 
 love as God loves is stamped right into our very bodies.”
“There is the inspirational quality of live exhibits, ... One of the main reasons for aquariums to exist these days is to use that power of inspiration of living animals to motivate visitors to protect these animals in the world.”
“People are like dirt. They can either nourish you and help you grow as a person or they can stunt your growth and make you wilt and die.”
“This is not the end. It is not even the beginning of the end. But it is, perhaps, the end of the beginning.”
“When we are grateful for the good we already have, we attract more good into our life. On the other hand, when we are ungrateful, we tend to shut ourselves off from the good we might otherwise experience.”
“The road less travelled holds within it life's biggest fortune.”
“Never wait for a magical moment; conjure your own destiny.”
“Out of intense complexities intense simplicities emerge.”
“I consider myself a student, both in my work and my life, and I'm constantly learning and I'm constantly grateful for that.”
“He preaches like he is 19. He gives thunderous, moving, inspirational sermons. It is really powerful.”
“Roy Chapman will always be an inspiration for those who pursue the dream of winning the Kentucky Derby, and were all better for having known him.”
“The inspiration for putting the piece together was essentially a feeling the holiday was not really taken seriously.”
“Judging the existence by comparison is not always the best pathway to progress.”
“Sometimes a crisis situation makes your mind feel like the grey fuzzy no reception display on television.”
“In the final analysis there is no solution to man's progress but the day's honest
work, the day's honest decisions, the day's generous utterances and the day's good
deed.”
“A troubled mind has more reasons to think than a gleeful one.”
“Intellectuals solve problems, geniuses prevent them.”
“Madness knows no manners.”
“I'm very inspired.”
“If you can’t beat em, buy em out.”
“Let’s talk about something nice, she said, and I asked, like what? Mint chocolates and pink ponies? Peppermint breath and brownies? Cotton candy and fruit slush? Popsicles and jelly mush?”
“The finest eloquence is that which gets things done”
“Knowing is nothing, showing is everything.”
“Common sense is for people who lack imagination.”
“Maintaining a comfort zone can, paradoxically, lead to discomfort in the long
run.”
“Joseph's strength is his personal love of style. He's an inspiration to ordinary guys. Style isn't about good looks or money; it's about how you put things together.”
“That's certainly inspiring, and something to model after.”
“According to the old testament, the married man shall live by the rule - YES DEAR, NO DEAR, and according to the new testament, he shall live by the rule - YES DEAR, ABSOLUTELY DEAR.”
“People have completely eliminated the heart from the equation of love, now they just love with their minds.”
“Success is neither magical or mysterious. Success is the natural consequence of
consistently applying the basic fundamentals.”
“Happiness is like cotton candy, you always think you’ve a lot of it but it’s gone even before you’ve properly tasted it.”
“Dead men don't count.”
“Be able to stick with a job until it is finished. Be able to bear an injustice without
having to get even. Be able to carry money without spending it. Do your duty
without being supervised.”
“I'm hoping I'm going to find a little inspiration out there. My last year and a half, I haven't had as much fun as I would have liked.”
“There is always a way out for the quick witted.”
“Nonviolence is not a garment to be put on and off at will. Its seat is in the heart, and it must be an inseparable part of our being.”
“A single word, typed free of errors and timed right is worth a million emoticons any day.”
“If you can’t do it with a 'click', it must be one of those things they call impossible to do.”
“You can chain me, you can torture me, you can even destroy this body, but you will never imprison my mind.”
“Sing your heart out Lassy...sing to the dark clouds...maybe they will cheer up and let the sun peek through.”
“For here we are not afraid to follow the truth wherever it may lead…”
“The ultimate inspiration is the deadline.”
“He was completely taken with the Gulf Coast and the beauty of the natural landscape. It gave him inspiration. It gave him rest. It fueled him and allowed him to come back to the city and renew his work.”
“If you say 'shit happens' I am just gonna have to say 'guess you're not toilet trained huh'.”
“From the dark end of the street -- To the bright side of the road -- We'll be lovers once again on the -- Bright side of the road”
“As I grow older, I pay less attention to what men say. I just watch what they do.”
“For anything worth having one must pay the price; and the price is always work, patience, love, self-sacrifice”
“A faith to live by, a self to live with, and a purpose to live for.”
“Think like a queen. A queen is not afraid to fail. Failure is another steppingstone to greatness.”
“The sages do not consider that making no mistakes is a blessing. They believe,
rather, that the great virtue of man lies in his ability to correct his mistakes and
continually make a new man of himself.”
“He who lie's, will only be disappointed at the end.”
“Your task is not to seek for love, but merely to seek and find all the barriers within yourself that you have built against it.”
“Life is not a destination but a journey. Enjoy every step of the way.”
“Any fool can criticize, condemn, and complain but it takes character and self control to be understanding and forgiving.”
“Babies are bits of star-dust blown from the hand of God. Lucky the woman who knows the pangs of birth for she has held a star.”
“Follow roads that aren't on the map.”
“No man stands so tall as when he stoops to help a child.”
“But most important, these precious relics bring visitors inspiration and healing. To be in their presence is to be in the presence of the Buddha and other masters.”
“If you think you can, or think you cannot, you are right.”
“I dream of giving birth to a child who will ask, "Mother, what was war?"”
“Challenges are overcome in the arena, not in the stands.”
“Only mothers can think of the future-because they give birth to it in their children.”
“There are two births: the one when light
First strikes the new awakened sense;
The other when two souls unite,
And we must count our life from thence,
When you loved me and I loved you,
Then both of us were born anew.”
“You miss all the shots you never take.”
“You get out of things what you put into them.”
“At the center of your being you have the answer; you know who you are and you know what you want.”
“The day's blow rang out, metallic -- or it was I, a bell awakened, and what I heard was my whole self saying and singing what it knew: I can”
“It is a fine seasoning for joy to think of those we love.”
“Everyday is amazing by learning great thing. And it becomes more wonderful by learning something useful”
“Believe in yourself . People that dont know us well enough will say we are impulsive ! We are just decesive”
“Dare to dream & find your path. Dare to fight & realize your dream.”
“A good plan today is better than a great plan tomorrow.”
“Excellence is an art won by training and habituation. We do not act rightly
because we have virtue or excellence, but rather we have those because we have
acted rightly. We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act but a
habit.”
“A slight asymmetry inspired instant fondness.”
“He was an inspiration. It was just so exciting to hear about somebody so young who had suffered so much and had such hope to accomplish something.”
“The inspiration for the whole body of work is routed in my philosophy of the after life.”
“It is NOT what you could of done BUT it’s what you DID DO, NOT what you could do BUT what you WILL DO.”
“Live your life today in the manner you would have wanted to live out yesterday.”
“Friendship is a sheltering tree.”
“A good salesman is who can sell himself before selling his products.”
“The perfect man uses his mind like a mirror. It grasps nothing; it refuses nothing, mind can do one greater harm....”
“The greatest potential of control tends to exist at the point where action takes
place.”
“When I was sick, it was important for me to have someone to look [at] for inspiration, such as Jose Carreras who went through a bone marrow transplant, ... If I can be that for anybody else, then I am happy.”
“We see Invisible, we do Impossible.”
“The best way to celebrate your freedom is to LIVE it! Be you. Be free. Don’t just make freedom something you have, make it something you do...something you ARE!”
“Dreams not pursued by action are simply that, dreams with little prospect of
being attained. Action taken without a plan or direction is simply that action with
little prospect of success. Tie the plan and the action together and the dreams can
become reality.”
“The empowered mind allows problems to seed personal growth.”
“How would your life be different if…You stopped making negative judgmental assumptions about people you encounter? Let today be the day…You look for the good in everyone you meet and respect their journey.”
“If love does not know how to give and take without restrictions, it is not love, but a transaction that never fails to lay stress on a plus and a minus.”
“Every man's work, whether it be literature or music or pictures or architecture or anything else, is always a portrait of himself”
“The inspiration and meaning behind the title 'Playing With Fire' is self explanatory. I'm excited about this album and am looking forward to continuing my promotional club tour in support of it and seeing the first-hand reaction of my fans listening to my songs for the first time. My album is sure to set the dance floors across the world on fire!”
“It is better to die young rich in adoration than to live long amongst poor principles.”
“To discover life to the fullest, one must start within.”
“Singleness of purpose is one of the chief essentials for success in life, no matter what may be one's aim.”
“Time is like a spiral bringing something special each year and propelling you closer to your dreams.”
“Do you love yourself enough to be what you love yourself enough to want.”
“When you fail to dream, you fail to progress in life.”
“Mistakes are merely steps up the ladder.”
“life, funny, inspirational, war”
“Dream to create you aspirations and aspire to achieve your dreams. If you dream of the skies you will reach the heavens.”
“Goals give you more than a reason to get up in the morning; they are an
incentive to keep you going all day. Goals tend to tap the deeper resources and
draw the best out of life.”
“I can describe myself in one word, music, can you?”
“Find the strength and confidence to conquer what you hide from; only then will you have the courage and willpower to achieve the things you seek.”
““A single candlelight can illuminate in the greatest darkness. But the greatest darkness can’t darken a single light.””
“Individual commitment to a group effort -- that is what makes a team work, a company work, a society work, a civilization work.”
“The inspiration and meaning behind the title, Playing With Fire, is self-explanatory.”
“The speakers were inspirational and enthusiastic.”
“Love and pity and wish well to every soul in the world; dwell in love, and then you dwell in God.”
“sometimes in life you are ment to meet but not ment to be”
“He's my friend that speaks well of me behind my back”
“Brave and defy your secure zone daily; you will not mature, if you do not challenge your disposition.”
“You have brains in your head. You have feet in your shoes. You can steer yourself in any direction you choose. You're on your own.
And you know what you know. You are the guy who'll decide where to go.”
“Nobody can mislead you if you follow your own steps.......”
“There is much satisfaction in work well done, but there can be no happiness
equal to the joy of finding a heart that understands.”
“Your decision is what makes life difficult or easy.”
“It is better to bless others, than to be exalted yourself; the time of your adoration will come soon enough.”
“Any experience can be transformed into something of value.”
“Stories that teach, stories that heal: these are the stories people need to hear...”
“Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma - which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don't let the noise of other's opinions drown out your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary.”
“There are no great people in this world, only great challenges which ordinary
people rise to meet."
There are no great people in this world, only great challenges which ordinary
people rise to meet.”
“It was an inspiration. We thought it would be great to help kids to be able to achieve to their fullest abilities and figured you can't start in high school. It is too hard.”
“He played a real inspirational role.”
“The world is circular ... everything comes back around to you.”
“Not everything happens the way you want it to, that's what makes life an adventure.”
“You can bear any how if you have a why.”
“She was the light of my world, but with her sun gone down I notice the twinkling of the stars beyond, and each one of them a sun too.”
“What makes a river so restful to people is that it doesn't have any doubt - it is sure to get where it is going, and it doesn't want to go anywhere else.”
“Blind faith stands trial by all disloyal to patients and perseverance. Patients and perseverance is rewarded to all that believe in miracles.”
“Nature does not bestow virtue; to be good is an art.”
“IF YOU CAN'T THANK GOD FOR WHAT YOU HAVE, THANK HIM FOR WHAT YOU HAVE ESCAPED!”
“Life only happens to you once, so live each and everyday as if it were your last. Don't dwell on the small things in life, make up for all the bad and negativity and move on because for every minute you are angry and upset you lose 60 seconds of happiness and joy.”
“Forgiveness is giving up the hope that the past could be any different.”
“I've been told that my quotes are at a very elevated rank in life, that's just where they are.”
“I have held many things in my hands, and I have lost them all; but whatever I have placed in God's hands, that I still possess”
“You know you have lived well when people talk about your life and become inspired.”
“Wild roses have fragile blossoms; they may not have the overpowering beauty of their cultivated cousins, but they possess a subtle headiness and hidden attributes, that to the careful gardener may come shining through in fleeting moments.”
“I find it really awe inspiring. It really touched me.”
“As the season went on our offence continued to grow with the assistance of Bill. He was able to inspire confidence in our offensive unit, which bodes well for us starting the 2006 season in the right direction.”
“Calabash is earthy, inspirational, daring and diverse,”
“Be vigilant family, for our children are suffering and need prayer. Stand watch at the helm and man this ship, for we are their anchor.”
“Your greatness and magnanimity spreads along each path which you touch. Always grow this light within.”
“In heartbreak and despair, I see strength and hope.”
“Your life is just your time on Earth. Learn to control your time, and you learn to control your life.”
“In love/marriage when things go wrong, there is only one person to blame, yourself!”
“Nothing will ever be attempted if all possible objections must first be overcome.”
“Hospitals like Brigham and Women's Hospital are an inspiration to the field. They reaffirm that quality and patient safety are cornerstones of hospitals' commitment and mission. They are testing new strategies for providing safer, more effective patient-centered care, and are sharing what they learn with the field to help all hospitals fulfill the promise of high-quality, safe care for their communities.”
“Let's relate in way that heals...”
“Actually, if you lie you’ll lose the chance to tell the truth.”
“Sometimes We are meant to meet but not meant to be”
“Even the best who scores 100% will fall but I will never, simply because I rather scoring 99% and keep some room for improvement.”
“I never saw an ugly thing in my life: for let the form of an object be what it may - light, shade, and perspective will always make it beautiful”
“Man has no nobler function than to defend the truth”
“It's India-inspired, but the styles are watered down. There's only a touch of India.”
“His extraordinary reputation rests as much on the inspirational appeal and intelligence of his films as on their production values -- one suspects audiences come away changed as well as entertained.”
“Love is the ultimate outlaw. It just won't adhere to any rules. The most any of us can do is sign on as its accomplice.”
“Perserverance may not help you everyday; it will surely help on the important day of your life”
“Don't bother just to be better than your contemporaries or predecessors. Try to be better than yourself.”
“A person does not become clean and pure enough that they are then worthy of God's love and are exalted. God's love makes them pure and clean enough to then be exalted.”
“ Live your poem ”
“Only poetry inspires poetry.”
“No man or woman of the humblest sort can really be strong, gentle and good, without the world being better for it, without somebody being helped and comforted by the very existence of that goodness.”
“Only poetry inspires poetry.”
“Although faith is something I can not see; I trust in GOD he hears my dream. Believing in you is so easy for me; a hero foundation was built by thee. Extraordinary you are, absolutely puree; you’re my inspiration now, into all eternity.”
“Books are the best of things if well used; if abused, among the worst. They are good for nothing but to inspire.”
“Books are the best of things if well used; if abused, among the worst. They are good for nothing but to inspire.”
“You cannot escape the responsibility of tomorrow by evading it today.”
“Sooner or later that which is now life shall be poetry, and every fair and manly trait shall add a richer strain to the song.''”
“The farther backward you can look, the farther forward you are likely to see.”
“Hopefully it'll inspire our guys -- they knew how poorly I was playing, ... I told them if I could somehow win a match and win it pretty convincingly, it may give them a shot of confidence.”
“Zephyr introduces a new Lincoln brand that's a celebration of American drive and optimism. The inspiration for these ads - and for our rejuvenated brand - comes not just from where we've been and what we've done, but from the opportunities that lie ahead. Zephyr is ushering in a wave of outstanding new Lincoln products that we believe will captivate the American consumer who's ready to reach higher.”
“Sooner or later that which is now life shall be poetry, and every fair and manly trait shall add a richer strain to the song.''”
“The human body is a magazine of inventions, the patent office, where are the models from which every hint is taken. All the tools and engines on earth are only extensions of its limbs and senses.”
“Truth is like the sun. You can shut it out for a time, but it's not going to go
away.”
“Many time the reading of a book has made the future of a man.”
“Books are for nothing but to inspire.”
“Principle can never be a weathervane, spinning around this way and that with the
shifting winds of expediency. Principle is a compass forever fixed and forever
true.”
“She's been our inspiration. The only reason we've stuck together is she's made all of our music better. She's inspired us to succeed.”
“Books are for nothing but to inspire.”
“~ The eyes are the windows to the soul and a smile is the door allowing those you greet to enter. ~”
“Man is a shrewd inventor, and is ever taking the hint of a new machine from his own structure, adapting some secret of his own anatomy in iron, wood, and leather, to some required function in the work of the world.”
“next to of course god america i / love you land of the pilgrims and so forth oh”
“~ Your experiences are coming to pass because of your passed experiences. Discern the lesson, let go, and see there is only now, then you may break the chains that bind you to them ~”
“A son is a son till he takes him a wife, a daughter is a daughter all of her life.”
“The journey of a thousand miles must begin with a single step.”
“Unfortunately, that type of message is not one that's inspirational because he uses the wrong method in the movie every step of the way. He chooses to sell drugs and participate in gang violence. The means does not always justify the end.”
“Women should not be expected to write, or fight, or build, or compose scores; she does all by inspiring men to do all”
“Women should not be expected to write, or fight, or build, or compose scores; she does all by inspiring men to do all”
“The one without dreams is the one without wings.”
“Criticism should not be querulous and wasting, all knife and root-puller, but guiding, instructive, inspiring”
“In true love you must love someone firstly on the inside.”
“No army can stop an idea who's time has come”
“Men have been taught that it is a virtue to agree with others. But the creator is
the man who disagrees. Men have been taught that it is a virtue to swim with the
current. But the creator is the man who goes against the current. Men have been
taught that it is a virtue to stand together. But the creator is the man who stands
alone.”
“It came into him life, it went out from him truth. It came to him short-lived actions; it went from him poetry. It was a dead fact; now, it is quick thought. It can stand, and it can go. It now endures, it now flies, it now inspires. Precisely in porportion to the depth of mind from which it issued, so high does it soar, so long does it live.”
“The world and all it holds will still leave you empty.”
“He'll never be gone - not as long as those who remain are loyal to him.”
“The Lord Himself inspires us to worship Him; He reveals His Glorious Greatness. He Himself inspires us to place our faith in Him.”
“A good leader inspires people to have confidence in their leader. A great leader inspires people to have confidence in themselves.”
“Too much sanity may be madness and the maddest of all, to see life as it is and not as it should be.”
“Giving your child a skill is worth more than a thousand dollar bills and toys.”
“Happiness is a conscious choice, not an automatic response”
“It kind of gives everybody else out there who is not a big person the motivation and the inspiration that they know they can do it, too.”
“My sole inspiration is a telephone call from a director.”
“We've been watching the guys and been inspired by their fight and the way they're playing. We've had a good couple of years, beating South Africa and New Zealand, and this is just the icing on the cake.”
“The talent is there, but the players must be reminded that success is only one per cent inspiration and 99 per scent perspiration.”
“Do the thing you fear the fear will disappear”
“Brave is the warrior within we must demonstrate and persevere; if not for ourselves, then at least for our loved ones.”
“If you don't risk anything, you risk even more.”
“In the end you did'nt have to do it, you chose too.”
“Declare to the world today, what you are capable of; seize that tough first step now, to inaugurate your new life.”
“go outside at tell the world to f*ck its self! you are who you are! express your self... and how ever doesnt like it... bet the sh*t of of them. we dont need wannabes we need originals, be yourself!”
“If you want the rainbow, you've got to put up with the rain.”
“The more you depend on others less happier you will be. Happiness is mostly about independence and freedom from past misery. You must forgive yourself for your errors or those errors will be permanently engraved in your memory!”
“It's a new year but the same you, the one who lived the old year, who spent time rather than invest it, made the decisions that brought the old results, gave in to fear cowering, rather than courage exploring limitless possibilities. The old you is in there, somewhere waiting to sabotage your entire year. Your only hope is CHANGE, The old you must die that your dreams, hopes and aspirations might live.”
“The man of genius inspires us with a boundless confidence in our own powers.”
“The todays are the sum of our lives. So live well today for this is what your life story is about.”
“The todays are the sum of our lives.”
“The man of genius inspires us with a boundless confidence in our own powers.”
“Books are the best of things if well used; if abused, among the worst. They are good for nothing but to inspire. I had better never see a book than be warped by its attraction clean out of my own orbit, and made a satellite instead of a system.”
“Habit is stronger than reason”
“Let thankfulness be the miracle that grow your character”
“Hope is the first step to success; dream the implausible, then construct reality through action.”
“To avoid criticism, do nothing, say nothing, be nothing.”
“Sometimes hypocrisy is found in the least expected places. But always in abundance”
“You that have said and done consciously or unconsciously good and bad things that you have to people will forever be owed their thanks because you have made them adapt to life as it comes to them.”
“My odyssey is to obtain the ultimate level of awareness”
“Just as negative addictions sneak up on us a day at a time, so do positive
cravings. Meditation, creative movement, moments of selfnurturance
that bring
contentment all can become positive habits of wellbeing.”
“All that we've had, all that we have, and all that will be ours will be lost. If not during our lifetime, then when we perish.”
“You can tell if you have goals as opposed to pipe dreams - goals require you to develop your character and capacity to achieve them.”
“Nothing is more simple than greatness; indeed, to be simple is to be great”
““As so many of us try to find the light at the end of the tunnel... some think we will never see it.
Anyhow, if we can't see the light it's quite alright, I'll bring a flash light, matches and one of those things to rub and make fire, so we'll be fine.”
“Education is the kindling of a flame, not the filling of a vessel”
“Inspiration is for amateurs. I just get to work.”
“The larger the island of knowledge, the longer the shoreline of wonder.”
“There's lots of opportunities out there in life, but if you never put yourself out on
a limb and take chances you'll never dare to be great at anything.”
“Because it's very clean, very impeccable but then it's all inspired by the legions and nobles of the North. The hair is done like a Munch painting, and the things are inspired by the music of Grieg.”
“Don't get frustrated; Don’t be satisfied.”
“When your world is crumbling down, remember it is just another obsticle that will test your very existance and make you stronger.”
“Inspiration is for amateurs. I just get to work.”
“Set goals, so you know what you want out of life.”
“To all those in pain or suffering...rise up and show the world that when you are knocked down, you get back up.”
“It's your choice if you want to make history.”
“To exist is to change, to change is to mature, to mature is to go on creating oneself endlessly.”
“Make a commitment and work hard now. You will have all the time to party and relax after u have done your hard work.”
“Walking is the world's oldest exercise and today's modern medicine.”
“Victory is the supreme vengeance in life; discover it, and you will unearth bliss. Living The Dream Foundation.”
“Confirm your character; address your dreams, being vigilant and ready to change direction immediately. Prepare for greatness family, for a new year is coming and your opportunity to succeed is now. Living The Dream Foundation.”
“Is it cliché that on this very special day, to the King of all Kings, we don’t declare it? Lost in the defiant glamour of it all, I’m not afraid to say: Happy Birthday Jesus, I Love You.”
“Love is flower like; Friendship is like a sheltering tree”
“You may get skinned knees and elbows, but it's worth it if you score a
spectacular goal.”
“Steve was an inspirational leader because he was an exceptional individual. Steve cared deeply about his people, The Associated Press and what it meant to journalism. He played a pivotal role in the development of the modern AP in Europe and forever will hold a place in our hearts.”
“When your given an opportunity you must take it at that very moment, for you can never tell when life will bring fort another.”
“In life, for me being great is'nt an option, it's a priority.”
“People of mediocre ability sometimes achieve outstanding success because they
don't know when to quit. Most people succeed because they are determined to.”
“Go placidly amid the noise and haste, and remember what peace there may be in silence”
““You are Not in control and will never be as long as you are somebody else's ambition." - So don't wast you time, you have the power to take control and live your dreams. This your life and you only have one.... so live it!”
“Attitude is what makes the difference.You either make your life better or bitter....”
“You can do what you think you can do and you cannot do what you think you
cannot do.”
“Seeing the bigger picture and having a creative mindset often result in unexpected and innovative solutions.”
“He says we have to be like husband and wife. I'm the coach on the floor; he's the coach off the floor. We have to communicate all time. He listens to my ideas and if they're working, we'll go with it.”
“Failure is a prerequisite for great success. If you want to succeed faster, double your rate of failure.”
“They had the momentum going into halftime. And they came out with that same momentum in the second half. But they left me wide open. I just took the open shot.”
“Nothin is impossible because impossible itself says i m possible”
“Confidence....thrives only on honesty, on honor, on the sacredness of obligations,
on faithful protection and on unselfish performance. Without them, it cannot
live.”
“Guys were playing with a lot of inspiration out there. It was nice to see. We've played better than our last five-game record. We know we have to play like this every night in order for us to have a chance. But you don't want to get into the habit of losing, no matter how hard you're working.”
“Steve was an inspirational leader because he was an exceptional individual, ... Steve cared deeply about his people, The Associated Press and what it meant to journalism. He played a pivotal role in the development of the modern AP in Europe and forever will hold a place in our hearts.”
“He's a very inspired choice for a movie like this because he's very specific and precise and he's very psychologically clear. And for a movie like this, which you could do very bombastically -- a big, crash-bang-wallop thriller -- you knew that he would pitch it so that everything would be very objective and clear.”
“The exterior of the building is so remarkable and so unique, with its Normandy inspiration. I mean, it's a landmark; it's truly a landmark, and it was designed by one of America's greatest architects. But there's little point in saving a building just to save a building. Buildings are to be used. It doesn't have to have the original use; it just needs to be used.”
“I was disappointed for a moment, I looked at the sky.....Sky asked me “Hey! Can u be higher than me?” I humbly replied, “Although, Today I am beneath & grounded...I’ll reach you tomorrow....But.....Can you come at my level right now?”
“Only the Passionate souls have the ability to become immortal intellectuals, Remaining ones remains otherwise”
“Some day, in years to come, you will be wrestling with the great temptation, or
trembling under the great sorrow of your life. But the real struggle is here, now, in
these quiet weeks. Now it is being decided whether, in the day of your supreme
sorrow or temptation, you shall miserably fail or gloriously conquer. Character
cannot be made except by a steady, long continued process.”
“I wrote on your soul with my soul: «My everything. M.»”
“In life,your extent of Serenity is directly proportional to your extent of Sapience”
“It is the heart that makes a man rich. He is rich according to what he is, not according to what he has.”
“I've always done plays in the classroom, and that's kind of where my inspiration started.”
“A great idea is often a result of a diminutive idea embedded in the subconscious mind”
“Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma - which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don't let the noise of other's opinions drown out your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary.”
“God grant me the courage not to give up doing what I think is right even though I think it is hopeless”
“You experience a miracle when great things start happening in your life without your permission.”
“In life, we must appreciate the things we have and stop focusing on the things we don't have, for we will never have enough.”
“Once you fully apprehend the vacuity of a life without struggle, you are equipped with the basic means of salvation.”
“If you're never scared or embarrassed or hurt, it means you never take any
chances.”
“[This inspirational story is to do with] Top Gun, ... This book is devoted to Tom Cruise -- the living legend with a compassionate heart. And this book is about how Tom Cruise, the superstar with a compassionate heart, becomes the role model of a young talented Chinese girl who came to Los Angeles from a small village of China to pursue her own American dream.”
“The best way to control slaves is to convince them they are free.”
“Gratitude and compassion are the intangible keys that unlock the door of the heart.”
“To give real service you must add something which cannot be bought or measured with money, and that is sincerity and integrity.”
“If pursued with due diligence, the search for self will eventually lead one to three simple words: You Already Are.”
“Look to this day for it is life. In its brief course lie all the realities and truths of existence, the joy of growth, the glory of action, the splendor of beauty... Today, well lived, makes every yesterday a memory of happiness and every tomorrow a vision of hope. Look well, therefore, to this day...”
“Failure is only postponed success as long as courage 'coaches' ambition. The
habit of persistence is the habit of victory."
Herbert Kaufman”
“Upon viewing this exhibition, you can observe and feel the inspiration these artists echo of the boundless beauty offered by the Great Smoky Mountains and the people who live here in Sevier County.”
“Love the whole world as a mother lovers her only child.”
“No one knows the future, however, by way of your actions, you can help contour the outcome.”
“We invent what we love, and what we fear”
“We know that we are successful when our sucess hurts.”
“Be not ashamed of mistakes and thus make them crimes.”
“Your choices today determine your tomorrow and you make your life through
the power of choice.”
“It was inspirational to see Jermaine there. It has been hard playing without him, but we have been trying to get through it.”
“The success stories portrayed in 'Making Schools Work' can provide both inspiration and a road map for policy makers, educators, administrators, and parents to 'revolutionize' their own school systems to raise student achievement.”
“He's a very inspired choice for a movie like this because he's very specific and precise and he's very psychologically clear, ... And for a movie like this, which you could do very bombastically -- a big, crash-bang-wallop thriller -- you knew that he would pitch it so that everything would be very objective and clear.”
“No suffering befalls the man who calls nothing his own.”
“To set up what you like against what you don't like -- this is the disease of the mind.”
“You become what you think about.”
“Families are about love overcoming emotional torture.”
“Don’t confuse the two: Intelligence is knowing how to make decisions. Wisdom is knowing which of those decisions you can build your life upon.”
“He is a man of sense who does not grieve for what he has not, but rejoices in
what he has.”
“Our beloved, endangered brown pelicans have a never-ending struggle to survive. Pelicans have been my inspiration. I've wanted to retire, but I can't — I promised them I'd help them. They have had such a hard life, and they still do.”
“Leave the past, live the present, love the future.”
“I have surpassed it all...Thank GOD for inspiration”
“If I had eight hours to chop down a tree, I'd spend six hours sharpening my ax”
“I have surpassed it all...Thank GOD for inspiration”
“Don't be let down with what you DON'T have, only be proud with what you DO have.”
“Success may be Incident,but most probably its an Accident”
“The only thing that stands between a man and what he wants from life is often merely the will to try it and the faith to believe that it is possible.”
“Pascagoula came out and played inspired. They were aggressive and had a good game plan. Give them credit. We were tight, but I'm proud of them for taking care of business in the second half.”
“Be wise with whom you choose to love and care for, inconsistencies in your character will reveal itself when you have a change of heart. Ask yourself is love inconsistent? -Enlightened-”
“Worrying about the past or future only steals from this moments perfection”
“Fall from none-Rise from all”
“Sometimes unexpected things are a disappointment for sure.Yet when it happens it makes one see how resilient we are.”
“We must all know that our God is priceless, for he paid for everyone to celebrate their birthday once every year until the day they died.”
“I don't try to be the best; I try to be my best. If I am the best than I'm happy, and if I'm not, I'm still satisfied. In doing my best, I know I have succeeded.”
“If your actions inspire others to dream more, learn more, do more and become more, you are a leader.”
“Keep away from people who try to belittle your ambitions. Small people always
do that, but the really great make you feel that you, too, can become great.”
“With educated minds we should be able to clean up our own backyard before helping one another from time to time then we can all shine”
“A group of men in evening clothes looks like a flock of crows, and is just about as inspiring.”
“A group of men in evening clothes looks like a flock of crows, and is just about as inspiring.”
“I know someone who lives in Heaven and I miss them more and more every day, especially as Christmas is on it's way.”
“My thoughts before a big race are usually pretty simple. I tell myself: "Get out of the blocks, run your race, stay relaxed. If you run your race, you'll win... channel your energy. Focus."”
“The problem with most failing businesses is not that their owners don't know
enough about finance, marketing, management, and operations they don't, but
those things are easy enough to learn but that they spend their time and energy
defending what they think they know. My experience has shown me that the
people who are exceptionally good in business aren't so because of what they
know but because of their insatiable need to know more.”
“This is a contest that will showcase creativity, inspiration and talent, as well as advertise our county and fair.”
“He was certainly trying to give an inspirational speech but in a way a college audience that might be cynical could appreciate.”
“That inspired the girls a little bit more. All of a sudden we were hitting everything.”
“We have a great group of freshmen. That is very inspirational for the future of the program. We should be alive and kicking.”
“The only goal in life is to be attractive to someone you find attractive - providing you have impossibly high standards”
“Look for the Truth and you will see the Error; look for the Error and you will MISS the Truth!”
“To be what we are, and to become what we are capable of becoming, is the only
end in life.”
“‎"We are all here trying to find the answers to life while it passes us by and really all we need to do is learn how to dance through it.”
“Never say never, always prophesy that you can and you will.”
“The secret to productive goal setting is in establishing clearly defined goals,
writing them down and then focusing on them several times a day with words,
pictures and emotions as if we've already achieved them.”
“The many sounds of Memphis shaped my early musical career and continue to be an inspiration to this day.”
“If you need something inspirational, just point up to the top of your vision.”
“If you want to become a leader, first learn to follow”
“Remember that if the opportunities for great deeds should never come, the
opportunities for good deeds are renewed day by day. The thing for us to long for
is the goodness, not the glory.”
“You told me you'd never make me cry. Now I'm slipping on the tears you've made me cry. Why does it come as a surprise? To think I was so naive. Maybe it didn't mean so much to you, but it meant the world to me.”
“Recognize every time before doing anything
that you always do a miracle.”
“Let me not pray to be sheltered from dangers, but to be fearless in facing them.
Let me not beg for the stilling of my pain, but for the heart to conquer it.”
“It's really inspiring to see somebody go down so hard and come back and compete -- and do such a good job.”
“It's faithful without being religious. It's a garden book but it's not about gardening. It's sort of inspirational but it's not a devotional.”
“Sometime if you look up in the sky.
There is a path of your destiny.”
“We must always remember that great things comes to great people.”
“Know what you want to do, hold the thought firmly, and do every day what should be done, and every sunset will see you that much nearer the goal.”
“If you really want something bad enough, you'll find a way to get it.”
“the more you become self-realised, the more your worries will disappear and you will know your purpose in life…”
“Adversity causes some men to break; others to break records.”
“It?s inspirational for people to see their neighbors? home and garden.”
“My thoughts before a big race are usually pretty simple. I tell myself: "Get out of the blocks, run your race, stay relaxed. If you run your race, you'll win... channel your energy. Focus."”
“Do you know why I love you? Because I can.”
“The first step to becoming is to will it."”
“How you choose to handle failure is how you choose to live your life.”
“Choices are the fabric of ones character.”
“The aim of an argument or discussion should not be victory, but progress.”
“We wanted to tell stories that were inspirational, that were informative, and . . . with as broad a scope of different medical concerns as we could address.”
“She's a real inspiration. It is such a private thing. You wonder how far to go with it. I guess it depends on who you are.”
“God has primed me for this purpose. He has inspired me to be a voice for the voiceless.”
“You will never be able to solve any problem if all you ever do is blame them on others.”
“Destinations can be made by man, but the way to the destinations can only be made by God. Choose your destinations wisely.”
“Visualize this thing you want. See it, feel it, believe in it. Make your mental
blueprint and begin.”
“If the person you are talking to doesn't appear to be listening, be patient. It may simply be that he has a small piece of fluff in his ear.”
“Hardship invokes awareness, which in turn generates opportunity for enhanced living.”
“Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma - which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don't let the noise of other's opinions drown out your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary.”
“Having a vision for your life allows you to live out of hope, rather than out of
your fears.”
“Heaven is under our feet as well as over our heads.”
“You cannot get success just by reading the others' inspiration success stories and quotes and do nothing to improve.”
“The successful person has the habit of doing the things failures don't like to do.
They don't like doing them either necessarily. But their disliking is subordinated
to the strength of their purpose.”
“He is useless on top of the ground; he ought to be under it, inspiring the cabbages”
“Practice doesn't make perfect, practice makes better”
“He's my friend that speaks well of me behind my back”
“To swear off making mistakes is very easy. All you have to do is swear off
having ideas.”
“I have inspiration and feelings of being alive most every day I live. I call them part of the joy of living, and they are there for all of us.”
“Don't just settle, for there is a world of options.”
“Remember not only to say the right thing in the right place, but far more difficult still, to leave unsaid the wrong thing at the tempting moment.”
“Epiphany at midnight
Life is made of time.
Love is made of time.
Privileged are those who find love in time.
Wise are those who express that love, before life runs out of time.”
“Knowledge of the truth about anything produces freedom from its bondage.”
“You can neither give what you dont have nor say you never had anything to give.”
“I'm not sure of what I'm sure but I'm sure of something.”
“People with goals succeed because they know where they are going... It's as
simple as that.”
“Energy and persistence alter all things.”
“"Always be grateful for the inspiring music which lifts the spirit of even the lowest heart." ~Tom Baker”
“Life is a succession of lessons which must be lived to be understood.”
“The greatest charity of mankind can be seen in the soulful eyes of earth's kindliest animals. They seek only to love and serve, may we forever strive to do no less.”
“If not for today, if not for our past we would never have known something at all. Just say thanks to the past which is taught us to live and how to life”
“Never forget that the most powerful force on earth is love”
“That's one small step for [a] man, one giant leap for mankind.”
“When asked what single event was most helpful in developing the Theory of
Relativity, Albert Einstein replied, 'Figuring out how to think about the problem'.”
“There are inspirational words all over it. I thought it was going to be a little one-day project, and it became a solid five-day project. I put a lot of love into it.”
“It's really a little bit of everything while keeping it European-inspired. There's something to entertain everyone, and we'll have strolling musicians this year, so even if visitors aren't near a stage, they'll still be entertained.”
“As a teenager you are at the last stage in your life when you will be happy to hear that the phone is for you.”
“why do people rise and fall.. How and when they will get the attentions and why politicians fall when they fails their Career of president?
. It gives the meaning People rises for a Famous.. and falls like a Noob”
“It is not how one begins the journey of life rather how one ends it.”
“A woman has got to love a bad man once or twice in her life, to be thankful for a good one”
“Shout, even when nobody will listen!”
“as we live so we learn”
“I was given the book to read first of all and I found it totally inspiring, arousing and very moving. I literally couldn't put it down. There is something intoxicating about Marie's belief, not just in herself, but in the children at the school and in humanity - we need that!”
“Little strokes fell great oaks.”
“India has no dearth of brave young men and women and if they get the opportunity and help then we can compete with other nations in space exploration and one of them will fulfil her dreams,”
“Happy people plan actions, they don't plan results”
“Its not always best to judge a person by what they do, sometimes you must look to their intentions behind it.”
“Opportunities are small windows”
“A person that knows what he wants is dangerous.”
“What we have done for ourselves alone dies with us; what we have done for others and the world remains and is immortal.”
“Personally speaking there's only so long you can go from film to film to film. There's an inspiration an actor gets from the stage.”
“You have to learn the rules of the game. And then you have to play better than anyone else.”
“If you could only live once, once only, how would you live or change your life? Why don't you?”
“This one step - choosing a goal and sticking to it - changes everything.”
“Think of -- and thank -- those who gave the full measure of devotion and sacrifice, serving for all of us under the flag that eventually draped their caskets.”
“When it comes to lovin' couples,
don't we make the perfect pair- There's romance, love, and laughter in the friendship that we share. ...We care enough to listen, and understand. To build a life together, side by side and hand in hand. We both know that we're lucky and we've got a good thing going. Through ups and downs and give and take, our love just keeps on growing... 'Cause I bring out the best in you, and you the best in me- I guess it takes the two of us to make the perfect "we."”
“Enjoy the little things, for one day you may look back and realize they were the big things.”
“Ultimately, it's about a guy who's afraid to take a risk. Our hope is that Andy will be an inspiration to others. He's like the Lance Armstrong of virgins.”
“It's a new year. We didn't get it done but we've got to get it done the next day.”
“There are two kinds of people: those who say to God, "Thy will be done," and those to whom God says, "All right, then, have it your way”
“To all of this, add humility.”
“the prophecy of dreams requires life time struggle to make it happen but one single moment is enough to shatter them like glass”
“When you have shut your doors, and darkened your room, remember, never to say that you are alone, for you are not alone, but God is within, and your genius is within”
“Faith is a bird that feels the light and sings while the dawn is still dark”
“Happiness is essentially a state of going somewhere, wholeheartedly, one
directionally, without regret or reservation.”
“Our inspiration really comes from modern art. So we've taken silhouettes and mixed those silhouettes with unexpected color.”
“They're an inspiration to us. They have worked so hard to get where they are, and they're a young team. We have veterans. We should be able to get it done anytime.”
“No thought lives in your mind rent free!”
“"DO IT NOW" It takes as much energy to avoid a task as it does to do it. Procrastination saps power; completion gives relief.”
“The need to be right all the time is the biggest bar to new ideas. It is better to have enough ideas for some of them to be wrong than to be always right by having no ideas at all.”
“One who really Loves to be Happy, can never be unhappy.”
“Only one who dares to enter the Dark, can see the beauty of Darkness.”
“You are the one who inspire everybody to do his duty; I am inspired by your 'inspiration of duty';You are directly or indirectly involved with each and every action that takes place in this world. ”
“Reduce your plan to writing. The moment you complete this, you will have definitely given concrete form to the intangible desire.”
“That friendship will not continue to the end which is begun for an end”
“If you don't love what you do, you won't do it with much conviction or passion.”
“There is a wonderful mythical law of nature that the three things we crave most
in life happiness, freedom and peace of mind are always attained by giving them
to someone else.”
“You have your way. I have my way. As for the right way, the correct way, and the only way, it does not exist.”
“Every day, I work to free your spirit and show you how strong you can be, that the weaknesses and anxieties you have can be conquered with determination. I hope I'm able to help make a difference during the hardest part of your life, and if I say "I'll be there for you" too many times, it's because I want you to remember it, so that you know you can come to me if you ever need the comfort of a friend.”
“You will never be happy if you continue to search for what happiness consists of. You will never live if you are looking for the meaning of life.”
“The meeting of preparation with opportunity generates the offspring we call luck”
“My dad's music was a great inspiration to me.”
“Life is as we think., So think Beautifully...”
“I am content that I am wise enough to be foolish at times.. :-)
And so I am taking a leap forward for the next foolish attempt. And I wish to be successful in that by deriving loads of Happiness from that mystic foolish attempt...”
“yeah i've got something to say, and i'll be damned if nobody listens.”
“We are afraid to care too much, for fear that the other person does not care at all.”
“Don't rest when you're not successful, there is always enough time to do that when you die.”
“I am old enough to be wise yet young enough to make mistakes.”
“ A little thing done, is better then a big thing planned”
“There is no difference between death and escape your running away from the truth”
“The most important thing a father can do for his children is to love their mother.”
“When truth fails, we resort to lies. When the lies fail, we begin to erase those who don’t believe. We are not murderers, we are problem solvers. When people are a problem, we end them. Without them, we are free. This is how America works.”
“If nothing lasts forever, will you be my nothing?”
“ Pessimists see the glass as half empty even though it's full. Optimists see the glass as half filled even though there isn't a glass.”
“The most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen or even touched, they must be felt with the heart”
“One of the things I learned the hard way was that it doesn't pay to get
discouraged. Keeping busy and making optimism a way of life can restore your
faith in yourself.”
“Real, constructive mental power lies in the creative thought that shapes your
destiny, and your hourbyhour mental conduct produces power for change in your
life. Develop a train of thought on which to ride. The nobility of your life as well
as your happiness depends upon the direction in which that train of thought is
going.”
“She was the first person who got me involved and kind of inspired me,”
“For me, our beaches have always been a source of personal inspiration.”
“The freshmen are exceptional players. Every single one of them gives 100 percent at practice every day. They're an inspiration to the older guys.”
“We don't make fun of them. It's an inspirational show, and the contestants are so courageous. We're here to help them, not hurt them.”
“Ken is very inspirational. Even though he hasn't been playing, he's been there with us at every home game. He's been on the sidelines cheering. He has a good heart, and he's always fired up.”
“The club is in a state of shock. He was an inspiration to everyone here during four outstanding years, the highlight of which was his performance in the 1991 Scottish Cup final.”
“You can say 'No' and smile only when there is a bigger 'Yes' burning inside of
you.”
“We all reach the irrevocable point in time when we'll ask ourselves....'was there life before death?”
“Most misfortunes are the results of misused time.”
“[T]o talk well and eloquently is a very great art, but that an equally great one is to know the right moment to stop.”
“emptiness is only a disguise for an intimacy of God's, that God's silence, the eerie stillness, is filled by the Word without words, by Him who is above all names, by Him who is all in all. And his silence is telling us that He is here.”
“Analyze your life in terms of its environment. Are the things around you helping
you toward success or
are they holding you back?”
“Martina had this inspiration. The musicians were really excited about it because they were getting to play a bunch of music that hasn't been recorded in 30 or 40 years. She really knows what she wants and how to get it.”
“Nothing you do is a deposit unless the other person perceives it as such.”
“Religions and politics are the same, they all want power and to be right. What happens when you mix politics with religions??? I think is like drinking and driving....”
“Nothing is more simple than greatness; indeed, to be simple is to be great”
“Yesterday is what made a today and will bring a tomorrow, without a yesterday there would not be a now, so for those who think that yesterday is history....don't forget your history!”
“Repeat after me : ONE DAY I WILL SHINE...SO BRIGHT!!! THAT ANYONE TRYING TO WALK OVER ME WILL BE BLINDED BY HIS OWN REFLECTION.”
“Walk slowly at a relaxed pace and you will not stumble.”
“As for myself, I always willingly acknowledge my own self as the principal cause of every good and of every evil which may befall me; therefore I have always found myself capable of being my own pupil, and ready to love my teacher.”
“We saw that the Williston paper said that their goalie could be the best in the West and that inspired us a little bit.”
“If I care to listen to every criticism, let alone act on them, then this shop may as well be closed for all other businesses. I have learned to do my best, and if the end result is good then I do not care for any criticism, but if the end result is not good, then even the praise of ten angels would not make the difference.”
“The true measure of a man is his dignity in defeat and humility in victory”
“Every failure brings with it the seed of an equivalent success.”
“Forgiveness is a perfectly selfish act. It sets you free from the past.”
“If you want to find truth, be yourself. If you want to find love, love yourself.”
“Creative minds have always been known to survive any kind of bad training.”
“You're a real inspiration to us.”
“Expression of thoughts not restricted by anyone except ourselves.”
“I don't divide the world into the weak and the strong, or the successes and the
failures, those who make it or those who don't. I divide the world into learners and
nonlearners.”
“You need to make a commitment, and once you make it, then life will give you some answers.”
“Any time you wrap your emotional life around the weaknesses of another person,
you empower those weaknesses to control you.”
“To look within yourself, you first have to recongize the world that surronds you.”
“Don't let anybody tell you that you can't do it. You can. It's up to you. Decide to
do it and follow through.”
“The only certain means of success is to render more and better service than is
expected of you, no matter what the task may be. This is a habit followed by all
successful people since the beginning of time. Therefore I saith the surest way to
doom yourself to mediocrity is to perform only the work for which you are paid.”
“IMBECILITY, n. A kind of divine inspiration, or sacred fire affecting censorious critics of this dictionary.”
“Segovia was my musical inspiration while growing up, and he singlehandedly brought the guitar to the position of a major classical instrument,”
“Submit to the process and who you are deep within will shape your destiny.”
“We should not look back unless it is to derive useful lessons from past errors,
and for the purpose of profiting by dearly bought experience.”
“Concentrate: put all your eggs in one basket, and watch that basket.”
“To be a winner, you have to think like a winner!”
“Keep your hopes high, even if you get knocked on your butt. Get up. Get up. Get up!”
“Behold the turtle. He makes progress only when he sticks his neck out.”
“It's a big loss. She's a captain and a huge inspiration for the younger ones. She's a terrific, endearing one.”
“A little bit added to what you've already got gives you a little bit more.”
“This problem, too, will look simple after it is solved.”
“A winner is someone who recognizes his God-given talents, works his tail off to develop them into skills, and uses these skills to accomplish his goals.”
“Feed your mind with mental protein, not mental candy. Read, listen to and watch
positive, uplifting material.”
“You cannot change who you were, but you can change who you are now.”
“Synergy is almost as if a group collectively agrees to subordinate old scripts and
to write a new one.”
“The world of achievement has always belonged to the optimist.”
“As usual, Martin Luther King Day was inspirational and it once again brought us together as a community. What is more important is what we do every day after we leave this celebration and thankfully, we've been successful in meeting challenges that have come before and we will continue to do so.”
“We can choose to throw stones,
to stumble on them,
to climb over them,
or to build with them.”
“Sometimes you have to walk away from what you want to find what you deserve.”
“When your desires are strong enough, you will appear to possess superhuman powers to achieve”
“Security is mostly a superstition. It does not exist in nature, nor do the children of men as a whole experience it. Avoiding danger is no safer in the long run than outright exposure. Life is either a daring adventure, or nothing.”
“LOVE MAKES YOU LOVE THE THINGS YOU ONCE HATE”
“We must combine the toughness of the serpent and the softness of the dove, a
tough mind and a tender heart.”
“Action springs not from thought, but from a readiness for responsibility.”
“For the rest of my life I'm going to trust that God is always at work in all things,
and give Him thanks long before my simplest prayers are answered.”
“Tell the ones you love what they mean to you ... Never part on a bad word, instead kiss and make up before you part, incase you never return once you walk out that door on your journey ... Drive safe on the roads, better be to be late 4 your destination then not arrive at all.”
“I have learned throughout my life as a composer chiefly through my mistakes and
pursuits of false assumptions, not my exposure to founts of wisdom and
knowledge.”
“You will never find time for anything. You must make it.”
“Yesterday is history. Tomorrow is a mystery. And today? Today is a gift. That's why we call it the present.”
“Winding up unfinished business with another person can give you a great burst of
positive energy.”
“You may have a fresh start any moment you choose, for this thing that we call 'failure' is not the falling down, but the staying down.”
“For us, silence is an active catalyst for inspiration. It inspires us to make a racket.”
“What to do when inspiration doesn't come: Be careful not to spook, get the wind up, force things into position. You must wait around until the idea comes.”
“Anthony inspired me to do better academically. Early on, my buddies and I used to joke [that] Anthony one day might be the first Black president of the United States. He was always a leader. He was president of the high school debate team and president of his class. He could always inspire people to follow him and see things from his point of view.”
“True independence comes when we cease to FORCE and start to FLOW.”
“Bad situations provide the opportunity for great deeds.”
“Knowledge is power, but only wisdom is liberty.”
“Failures are opportunities to make our path clearer and more direct. Don't see a failure as a hinderence but rather as stepping stones to help you create a better and clearer picture of your goal. Furthermore, when one doesn't give up failures catapult one to the end result.”
“When one realizes their inner happiness they project it into their reality and become Happy...but first one must search, find, and connect with their inner happiness.”
“Happiness lies in the joy of achievement and the thrill of creative effort.”
“He's probably the most verbal leader. When somebody needs to speak up, he does it. It's inspirational. When they need to hear something from one of their peers, Brad lets them hear it.”
“The past exists only in our memories, the future only in our plans. The present is
our only reality.”
“Do something to move yourself toward your major goal every day.”
“You do not merely want to be considered just the best of the best. You want to
be considered the only one who does what you do.”
“When you take the second “e” out of believing you get Be Living — so our beliefs are what we are living!”
“Make sure your right, and then go do it.”
“The worst thing that one can do is not try, to be aware of what one wants and not
give in to it, to spend years in silent hurt wondering if something could have
materialized and never knowing.”
“The second half we were a completely different team. We played more inspired and competitively.”
“Genius is one percent inspiration and 99 percent perspiration.”
“By centering our lives on correct principles and creating a balanced focus
between doing and increasing our ability to do, we become empowered in the task
of creating effective, useful, and peaceful lives for
ourselves, and for our
posterity.”
“Make your own recovery the first priority in your life.”
“Remember, if you ever need a helping hand, you'll find one at the end of your
arm ... As you grow older you will discover that you have two hands. One for
helping yourself, the other for helping others.”
“The life of a small group of people, who live true to their convictions, does more
and more certain good than all writing. Let us, therefore, young and old, direct all
our actions as much as possible towards the realization of our convictions.”
“Having the right attitude...brings unlimited success and fulfillment towards your goal in life.”
“Whatever we focus on determines how we feel. And how we feelour
state of
mindpowerfully
influences our actions and interactions. Rather than jump to
conclusions, consider all the possibilities and choose to focus on one that will
empower you and those you care about.”
“Anyone who stops learning is old, whether at twenty or eighty. Anyone who keeps learning stays young. The greatest thing in life is to keep your mind young.”
“If today were the last day of my life, would I want to do what I am about to do today?”
“When we get a second chance in life, suddenly everything is exciting, amazing.”
“"There is no scarcity of opportunity to make a living at what you love to do, there
is only scarcity of resolve to make it happen.”
“Only those who dare to fail greatly can ever acheive greatly.”
“we all know the saying, live and let love in. sometimes, its important to remove the chains of your past, accept the present, and embrace the furture. just bcuz something may not be the usual, that doesnt make it a bad thing. maybe, its the exceptional and extraordinary things in life that are worth waiting for, working towards, and following down the rabbit's hole.”
“You can judge the validity of any idea or concept by asking Is this true for me?”
“The launch of this new magazine offers PC World's customers an engaging new branding experience. It finely balances inspiration with practical knowledge and buying advice, designed to deepen the customer's relationship with the PC World brand. The scope and effectiveness of editorial combined with the sheer scale of circulation will combine to have a significant impact in this dynamic market.”
“His genius he was quite content in one brief sentence to define; Of inspiration one percent, of perspiration, ninety nine.”
“When I was student teaching, I was way more inspired to do art just from seeing my kids do art,”
“Argue for your limitations, and you get to keep them.”
“Good actions get good results in time.”
“Accept everything about yourself--I mean everything. You are you and that is the beginning and the end--no apologies, no regrets.”
“Optimism may not always deliver the results I want, but ill take my chances at it.”
“Change often means advancement”
“You can't depend on your judgment when your imagination is out of focus”
“There is all the difference in the world between treating people equally and attempting to make them equal.”
“A + B + C = Success if, A = Hard Work, B = Hard Play, C = Keeping your mouth
shut.”
“To me, the fall in love is just the intro, once you get there you get the entire story.”
“If one does not know to which port one is sailing, no wind is favourable”
“It is the ability to choose which makes us human.”
“‎"Life" the most fun and scariest ride on the planet!”
“Quickly say That's good! to every setback and adversity, and then find out what is
good about it.”
“If everyone is thinking alike, then someone isn't thinking.”
“We start the collection with sharply tailored Moroccan inspired suits. And then, as the show progresses, it becomes gentler, softer, more feminine. Men's evening dress shirts suddenly become wafting long dresses in leopard print sweater chiffon.”
“Where there is life, there is hope Where there are hopes, there are dreams. Where
there are vivid dreams repeated, they become goals. Goals become the action
plans and game plans that winners dwell on in intricate detail, knowing that
achievement is almost automatic when the goal becomes an inner commitment.
The response to the challenges of life – purpose is
the healing balm that enables
each of us to face up to adversity and strife.”
“BE HAPPY, Ever think that MAYBE WE ARE THE ONES WHO BRING THE SUN OUT?”
“You must continue to gain expertise, but avoid thinking like an expert.”
“The greatest pleasure in life is doing what others say cannot be done.”
“The GRASS you think is GREENER on the other SIDE, is actually ARTIFICIAL”
“One never notices what has been done; one can only see what remains to be done.”
“One characteristic of winners is they always look upon themselves as a do it yourself project.”
“If a little labor, little are our gains. Man's fortunes are according to his pains.”
“The heart is the spirit of the mind, and the mind is the soul of the heart.”
“You can have more, be more and do more because you can change the person you
are.”
“I circle you”
“Love is a sickness full of woes, All remedies refusing; A plant that with most cutting grows, Most barren with best using”
“The most important ingredient we put into any relationship is not what we say or
what we do, but what we are.”
“Get excited and enthusiastic about you own dream. This excitement is like a forest fire - you can smell it, taste it, and see it from a mile away.”
“Winners take time to relish their work, knowing that scaling the mountain is what makes the view from the top so exhilarating.”
“I think a lot of people saw it was something inspirational, kind of a Marine Corps spirit,”
“Doug was a real inspiration to me, and one of the most passionate people I have ever met. Doug was careful, calculated, smart, and confident in the mountains, and I enjoyed every moment I ever got to spend with him.”
“All year long he?s been a real good role model for the underclassmen. The freshmen have really inspired Joe and he showed them the way.”
“Know yourself well first, then you can know others. With this knowledge comes
the vision for personal success.”
“It is not important how much you know but it is more important to be living your true self from what you already know! ~ Joseph Ghabi”
“The secret of living is to find...the pivot of a concept on which you can make
your stand.”
“The fatal mistake is waiting for life's circumstances to be right before we begin.
Simply begin with your heart, look deeply into it and trust what you feel. Practice
knowing and you will now.”
“If this be not love, it is madness, and then it is pardonable.”
“External success has become an ambition without a causeand
with increasingly
hollow spiritual rewards.”
“Relentless, repetitive self talk is what changes our self-image.”
“The greatest revolution of my life is the discovery that individuals can change the
outer aspects of their lives by changing the inner attitudes of their minds.”
“The secret of living is giving.”
“No man or woman is an island. To exist just for yourself is meaningless. You can achieve the most satisfaction when you feel related to some greater purpose in life, something greater than yourself.”
“We see the world, not as it is, but as we areor,
as we are conditioned to see it.”
“I don't know about you but I'm proud of growing up in my area.”
“If you swing hard enough and often enough you must eventually hit a home run.”
“The results you achieve will be in direct proportion to the effort you apply.”
“It sparked me. I was inspired by it. Rosie's not a very big guy, and Matt's a very big part of our team. The fact he went and immediately stuck up for a teammate speaks volumes about Rosie, as well as the group itself.”
“Language is the armory of the human mind, and at once contains the trophies of its past and the weapons of its future conquests”
“Any time you're tempted to say "Impossible," add an apostrophe and a space, and
say, "*I'm* possible."”
“Winners have the ability to step back from the canvas of their lives like an artist gaining perspective. They make their lives a work of art / an individual masterpiece.”
“A bit of baseball wisdom: You can't steal second with your foot on first.”
“Everything here, but the soul of man, is a passing shadow. The only enduring
substance is within.”
“Success in life comes not from holding a good hand, but in playing a poor hand well.”
“Bob was an inspirational storyteller, an audacious fighter and an unpretentious mystic. He was serious about saving the world while always maintaining a sense of humor.”
“I don't believe in taking unnecessary risks, but a life without risk isn't worth
living.”
“Nine tenths of education is encouragement.”
“Don't be a time manager, be a priority manager. Cut your major goals into bite-sized pieces. Each small priority or requirement on the way to ultimate goal become a mini goal in itself.”
“By centering our lives on timeless, unchanging principles, we create a
fundamental paradigm of effective living. It is the center that puts all other centers
in perspective.”
“Love is like a rose many people dare to held it close to their heart but only a few could inflict the pain.”
“Every great human achievement is preceded by extended periods of dedicated,
concentrated effort.”
“Never become so much of an expert that you stop gaining expertise. View life as a continuous learning experience.”
“It was an inspiration to me,”
“He's an inspiration to me, ... He doesn't care that it doesn't usually work that way. He ignores the stares. He just gets out there and plays.”
“there comes a time in your life when you realize you are not the person that you think you are. And at that very same moment you realize its time to wake up and become the person you should really be.”
“It's hard to wring my hands when I am busy rolling up my sleeves”
“Mistakes are painful when they happen, but years later a collection of mistakes is what is called experience.”
“The language of truth is unadorned and always simple.”
“If ever there is tomorrow when we're not together.. there is something you must always remember. you are braver than you believe, stronger than you seem, and smarter than you think. but the most important thing is, even if we're apart.. i'll always be with you.”
“At the end of our time on earth, if we have lived fully, we will not be able to say,
I was always happy.’ Hopefully, we will be able to say, ‘I have experienced a
lifetime of real moments, and many of them were happy moments.’”
“A life lived with integrity - even if it lacks the trappings of fame and fortune is a shinning star in whose light others may follow in the years to come.”
“Happiness is not an accident. Nor is it something you wish for. Happiness is
something you design.”
“There are two ways to succeed:
one by knowing the right way
and the other one by knowing
all the wrong ways!”
“The place to begin building any relationship is inside ourselves, inside our circle
of influence, our own character.”
“You cannot truly listen to anyone and do anything else at the same time.”
“Somewhere on this universe is a place of joy and wonder. Where is this place? right under your feet.”
“The day that you stop learning is the day that you start decreasing your rewards
and start suffering from frustration and lower levels satisfaction.”
“The real voyage of discovery consists not in making new landscapes but in
having new eyes.”
“[In her Aug. 12 letter,] Anchor Jennings an inspiration, ... glamour, professionalism, dependability, fair play and excellence ... To me, he was the consummate news professional!”
“The supreme quality for a leader is unquestionably integrity.”
“He that will not sail till all dangers are over must never put to sea.”
“You must learn from your past mistakes, but not lean on your past successes.”
“If you learn to appreciate more of what you already have, you will find yourself
having more to appreciate.”
“Management is efficiency in climbing the ladder of success; leadership determines whether the ladder is leaning against the right wall.”
“Learn from the past, set vivid, detailed goals for the future, and live in the only moment of time over which you have any control: now.”
“We take as much inspiration from what he's doing and how he's handling it as he takes from the club.”
“Begin at the beginning, the king said gravely, and go till you come to the end;
then stop.”
“I live my life from within, that is my source of self-love.”
“Arm yourselves, and be ye men of valour, and be in readiness for the conflict; for
it is better for us to perish in battle than to look upon the outrage of our nation and
our altar.”
“Nature gives you the face you have when you are twenty. Life shapes the face
you have at thirty. But it is up to you to earn the face you have at fifty.”
“When one feels like giving up when you must continue and do is a lot different from when you must yet can't. Don't lose hope if you know you are going to get 6 hours of sleep and still be tired rather get 3-4 finish your job and take a nap when possible. Use an energy supplement until then.Sure it might take a lot more out of you but you will get a lot more back.”
“You can never earn in the outside world more than you earn in your own mind.”
“The reason most people never reach their goals is that they don't define them, learn about them, or even seriously consider them as believable or achievable. Winners can tell you where they are going, what they plan to do along the way, and who will”
“Edge is not an off-road adventure vehicle, and it doesn't look like one. The inspiration for the Edge is contemporary design and an adventurous state of mind.”
“It is great to be part of a team, we run together every Saturday. It becomes very inspirational as we hear a new story every week.”
“Anthony is the most inspirational athlete I have ever coached.”
“I've always made a total effort, even when the odds seemed entirely against me. I never quit trying; I never felt that I didn't have a chance to win.”
“The big lesson of life is never be scared of anyone or anything. Fear is the enemy
of logic.”
“If you believe you can, you probably can. If you believe you won't, you most assuredly won't. Belief is the ignition switch that gets you off the launching pad.”
“I like a man who grins when he fights.”
“Nothing happens to us which we are not fitted by nature to bear. Problems call
forth our courage and our wisdom; indeed, they create our courage and our
wisdom. It is only because of problems that we grow mentally and spiritually. It is
through the pain of confronting and resolving problems that we learn.”
“Determination gives you the resolve to keep going in spite of the roadblocks that lay before you.”
“What happened on that island was so moving, so disturbing and so inspiring, I felt I had to remove myself.”
“Do not put a full stop In your life, go for a comma.”
“Happiness is not about what you do, it's about how you do what you do.”
“If we had no winter, the spring would not be so pleasant: if we did not sometimes taste of adversity, prosperity would not be so welcome.”
“Whenever your feeling down, look back at what you already achieved. Then, look forward and attain something greater.”
“You have so much to offer the world , if only you could see it.”
“One of the best feelings is knowing that you influenced on someone on a positive way.”
“Do what thy manhood bids thee do from none but self expect applause; He
noblest lives and noblest dies, who makes and keeps his selfmade
law.”
“I told my psychiatrist that everyone hates me. He said I was being ridiculous - everyone hasn't met me yet.”
“Nobody is waiting for you to come and change their life, but they all are wishing to see something different from you.”
“The difference between the top performers and the average or mediocre
performers is not a great, massive difference. It is just a tiny difference because
the top performers to things just a tiny bit.”
“Searching for love will ultimately lead to pain. The best relationships are the ones that are not sought after. Realizing that the innermost core of your being is made up of love will lead you to unbroken peace.”
“Not knowing what may happen next is the end of knowing. Confirming to yourself that nothing is certain can open up the inherent peace that resides within you. Rest in the unknown, rest in the unmanifested. The only thing permanent is impermanence, and this is taking place right now.”
“Optimism and Pessimism are two buttons that every human being has inside of them. Whether you decide to press Optimism or Pessimism depends on you. No one else, no matter how much they intervene or struggle, can decide this for you. Only you and you alone have the power, so don't give others that power.”
“I have but one lamp by which my feet are guided, and that is the lamp of experience.”
“Give me liberty or give me death.”
“Fool mocks perseverance.”
“I would prefer to have an adaptable mind than one that processes the present through the filter of past experiences.”
“you may not be what he wants you to be "the perfect girl"; but at the same time whats so perfect about him? && you may not have it all together but is he doing his part to make sure together you 2 have it all?”
“If you take your problems and put it in proportion to the size of the universe, you will realize that there is nothing you cannot overcome.”
“Your mere presence alters every nerve my body has ever known.”
“Perfection exist only in the mind of those who lack the will to be humble. For love sees no flaws. Only the beauty that conquers within.”
“Kissing is like art, you just have to be enthusiastically creative.”
“what 'FREEDOM' says
.............FREE.............D....O....M
"you are 'Free', yet you 'do owe many'”
“Being naked feels great, it's like you are this fine piece of painting, where all eyes and minds feed from, then suddenly you don't feel naked anymore.”
“My confidence always pulls me through the toughest of battle fields, and I somehow walk away confidently.”
“Making love to my thoughts always inspires me to keep my thoughts aroused, for more inspiration.”
“Making love to my thoughts always inspires me to keep my thoughts aroused, for more inspiration.”
“If you Regret it Accept it Never Forget it Learn from your lesson and then comes progression”
“To let fear rule your life, is to let the enemy of humanity win.”
“Self-pity is the real fool's gold.”
“Being YOUR SELF means owning our feelings then responding to them rather than reacting.”
“Being YOUR SELF means being true to who we really are. Man is basically good. This is the fundamental fact. Being mean or evil, therefore, is not us. It is a negation of who we really are.”
“Would Dorothy have reached the (Wizard of OZ) without the yellow bricks?!!”
“Are shadows as real as the objects that defines them?Ask the light to prove they are.”
“When coming to the aid of a loved one, it is important to remember the following: People are far more apt to remember and appreciate the help you give them if they can still touch an feel the success of your help than if your help was just a fleeting act that no longer exists.”
“Close your mind open your heart and trust the unknown .It's the only way to know.”
“Povery, War, Pollution, Corruption, Hunger, Genocide, and violence affect our world. Some people suffer each and every day. So I challenge you today, to make a difference.”
“I want you, but then again I don't. I'm willing to take a chance, but not really. To tell you the truth, I'm scared. I've been hurt and heartbroken too many times. I'm afraid that if I open up, it'll only end in disaster. That pain is going to be there whether I like it or not and I apologize. I'm not saying to wait for me cause I would hate to do that to you, but I'm just saying that I am worth it.”
“Sometimes you have to stop trying with some people. If they care, they'll make an effort.”
“I failed a lot of times running after people that didn't feel the same way for me. I treated them like they were my everything but they just treated me like another someone they knew. I gave up a lot of times and still every time I start loving someone new it never tends to work out and it tears me up inside realizing that they are starting to fade away from my life and eventually they'll be gone.”
“The essence of life is finding something you really love and then making the daily experience worthwhile.”
“Not even a lawless world can shake the heart of a righteous man”
“I missed you today, but that was nothing new. I didn't have to go far to see you. I just had to go the closet and pull out an old album. I always find you there, even in my darkest days. Even though everything in life will change, the memories in the album will never fade. Every time I take a look at the pictures, the flashbacks start to hit me and within moments I go back to the start when I first saw you. I don't want to look back at those days but I just cant help it. I still didn't move on.”
“Catching Your Second Wind - It's not about starting over;
It's not about a new beginning and it's not about having to have failed first.
It's about transformation, taking that first step and moving forward from where you are.”
“ The road may end, But you can make a 'u' turn”
“Maturity is always inherited from Stability but not the other way around.”
“In a world full of 'WHYs?', a word to the wise - WHY NOT?”
“Is it better to be thought normal and be forgotten for achieving average things, or thought insane and be remembered for doing the things that were thought impossible?”
“When you said forever, you meant a few months. When I said forever, I meant every day until I died. When you said always, you meant until you couldn't handle it anymore. When I said always, I meant until time ended. When you said you loved me, you meant I was no different from any other guy. When I said I loved you, I meant I had never felt what I felt for you.”
“Love well, whip well”
“Sometimes I just wanna hold your hand, look in your eyes and tell you: You're my baby boo.”
“Two prisoners whose cells adjoin communicate with each other by knocking on the wall. The wall is the thing which separates them but is also their means of communication. It is the same with us and God. Every separation is a link.”
“So many names, faces, places, and memories faded in time only to be remembered during times of hardship for only to strengthen me when I am weak, to give me focus when I am blind, and to give me direction when I'm lost.”
“sometimes it's out of your league to do something reckless for someone.”
“A man cannot be accurately judged by the things he say, until we are certain about the circumstances under which he speaks”
“Any over indulgence leaves a lingering sense of regret..”
“"I'm a kid to everyone but I'm not nieve. I know exactly what's going on.”
“You don't love someone because they're perfect, you love them in spite of the fact that they're not”
“They hurt me so bad to the point where crying was too mild of an response, that I couldn't bare to speak anymore. It felt like my life was going around in circles like deja Vu. And loneliness was all that I had. There wasn't anyone in person to look up to. Maybe one day I'll be that person, The person that a eighteen year old girl will look up to like a role model.”
“The human heart is strong enough to withstand an unwarranted assault, and brave enough to smile at the enemy after the smoke has cleared.”
“If better can be accomplished, then is good really good enough?”
“Truth often sacrificed for the sake of stability and peace.”
“Have the courage to die. Anyone can live.”
“Do not try to change the way a person feels...teach them to change the way they think.”
“One who is scared to fight, is most likely to win it!”
“It's true. And I'm admitting it now. I had low-self-esteem really bad. Trust me, that's not a good feeling. And when you have low-self esteem, people start to notice because of the way you dress and your posture when you walk. I was slumped over and covered myself in ugly clothes. And you know what, you don't cause yourself to have low-self esteem, other people do, you just make yourself feel worst.”
“Everyones life is a living hell, But in the end. The people with the most successful lifes are the people who learn to deal with their life the best”
“Courage is not the absence of fear, it is the ability to act in the presence of fear.”
“Why walk, when u can fly....”
“Don't let compliments flatter you,rather let criticism motivate you to being better.”
“When an opponent comes forward, move in and greet him; if he wants to pull back, send him on his way.”
“Sometimes a warm smile is all we needed to melt the emptiness of a frozen heart.”
“Strange Fact!!.......People know what there actions would led them to,still they blame FATE.”
“don't drown in your sins,remember that the hand of god is just waiting for you to reach”
“Love inspires the most.”
“Your thoughts are exactly as your choices that set the course of your life. ~ Joseph Ghabi”
“Your life will begin changing the moment you decide that you want it to. In order to facilitate change you must first be willing to allow it to manifest in your life, your heart, and in your thoughts. ~ Joseph Ghabi”
“Healing can take place in anyone’s life, as long as the decision is made to accept it and the changes it brings. In reality you are the only obstacle between you and change; it has nothing to do with anyone else who are, or have been involved in your past. You are the only one who can stop you from changing your life. ~ Joseph Ghabi”
“Time never changes things..It only give us the space to change it.”
“We will not get anywhere in life unless we wake up one day and decide that enough is enough, and consciously choose to take the time to close all the issues, patterns, belief systems and whatever else is no longer working for us. ~ Joseph Ghabi”
“We will not get anywhere in life unless we wake up one day and decide that enough is enough, and consciously choose to take the time to close all the issues, patterns, belief systems and whatever else is no longer working for us. ~ Joseph Ghabi”
“When the heart beats with true purpose, it needs no other reason to breathe.”
“It only takes a little bit of hope to change the world.”
“You are my favorite destination”
“In This Crazily Changing World, Where Basic Right of a Person Is That He's Free.
Well, I Just Want to be ME.
I Just Want To Be FREE!”
“We let our eyes get in the way of seeing”
“We are given the energy we attract. We attract the energy we think. Think positive!”
“He loves me, He loves me A lot”
“Do not let your dreams follow you, they will never catch up”
“Invest into Solutions, there is an open market for it right now”
“Strong men laugh last; I'm a woman, I'm one of those men.”
“Correcting everyone else does not earn you a waiver to not correct yourself.”
“Children save us just by existing”
“We were born into this, what this is, is up to you.”
“No matter how hard you try, there will be good and bad times in life, its up to you to use your strength to conquer your weakness.”
“Do not lose what is irreplaceable by holding onto something that isn't.”
“"Love is an energy field that encompasses us regardless of where we are, who were with." ~ Rene Remington”
“"Forgiveness is the way Home" ~ Rene Remington”
“Death is coming; don’t leave anything on the table.”
“Serendipity favors the believing.”
“I would rather have someone who is ugly than having someone that makes my life ugly .”
“Time is not definite”
“Sometimes being different is all it takes to make a difference.”
“I believe wellness encompasses a healthy body, a sound mind and a tranquil spirit. I am enjoying the journey as I strive for wellness.”
“Your the love of my existence”
“Wellness encompasses a healthy body, a sound mind and a tranquil spirit. Enjoy the journey as you strive for wellness.”
“I am a rock. Rocks do not break.”
“Negative Energy creates Negative results”
“The only thing that keeps people going everyday is the chance for them to reach there dream”
“Always keep in mind that you always come first in your life and not second. Have you ever wondered why it always seems to be you who has to change and adapt your life to suit everyone else, yet no-one else seems to bother about changing themselves to support your progress? ~ Joseph Ghabi”
“To accomplish great things, we must not only act, but also dream; not only plan, but also believe.”
“It takes a certain degree of egotism to attack others in order to make yourself feel better and a great deal of talent to resist the urge to defend yourself in a likewise manner.”
“to live life to the fullest means we have to make the most out of what we only have..'cause we can't actually have all of life's best..but we can make everything we have the best of what life has offered..”
“Courage is in the eye of the beholder, and the spirit of the superior.”
“Read to lead”
“When we're apart, remember ME with You.”
“Knock on the sky and listen to the sound”
“Using an alter-ego for emotional protection is like wearing an armour plated chef's apron at the front, while being completely naked at the back.”
“The aged dress their ‚once upon a time‘ suit and drive the time machine to youth. Thus the nostalgia restores them to life and gives them the reason for the existence.”
“Your dying every minute, every second, so die in the arms of someone who deserves you, time is ticking.”
“Where did the loyalty, the self control and trust go? When did true, pure love become a thing of the past?”
“Next time you feel the urge to do something that you know is only a passing moment, stop and think...what feels better, temporary satisfaction that will only leave you wanting more, or long term satisfaction that will give you the feeling of self control, pride and knowing that your body will love you for saying no.”
“Dreams are only Dreams if we don't take the action to unfold them!”
“Life is like a roller coaster. Full of ups and downs. Twists and turns. Sometimes you just have to throw your hands up.”
“To cause you pain,only pains me more deeply.
To make you smile,
an even greater joy.
To truly love you,
I am taught the meaning of love.”
“It's all about what you do every day, be remarkable!”
“I fear not the passage of death, only the manifestation of suffrage that it brings.”
“The greatest danger for most of us is not that our aim is too high and we miss it,
but that it is too low and we reach it.”
“What light is to the eyes - what air is to the lungs - what love is to the heart, liberty is to the soul of man.”
“If I could fly in the wing of a dove, I would fly to the sea and watch the sun come up... ♥ May today be full of Love and happy things... ♥♥♥ Show people you care ♥♥”
“Good night stars ... Good night moon ... Good night trees Good night soil ... We live between the earth and sky, yet we decide mostly where we are going ... Shall we reach for the stars ... Or just bury ourselves deep in the warm earth...”
“I believe one key to success is harnessing the lesson within our "failures" (What did we learn? How can we make it better?)”
“One can only see a flowers true beauty not when its in full bloom but on how it came to be.”
“The excitement of life is in every moment as each moment is a fresh and new experience.”
“We have this illusion that something outside of us is going to hold the answer, but the answer is NEVER outside of you!”
“You may turn over a million rocks looking for success but before you quit realize that its waiting for you under one of the unturned rocks.”
“When we spend so much time looking for outside experiences we MISS the experiences happening NOW.”
“Remember: He-Man ?? His favorite quote "I have the Power!!!" He claimed that this power made him the most powerful man in the Universe ... Well, "YOU ... have the POWER too!"”
“Stay positive, breathe in, if you look long enough you will see the truth even if it isn't offered freely.”
“When your happy smile, when your sad smile, when your frustrated smile, when your angry smile ... Feel the difference??”
“Productive people think positive and they prepare for Gods promise to promote their lives for a better future for themselves and people around them”
“Jealousy derives from the lack of oneself”
“There is opportunity in every moment -- Do you see it?”
“In Life there are both active players and passive players -- active players are creators of opportunities while passive players wait for opportunities.”
“If we tend to the pathways of our children, they will be less likely to fall.”
“When we are love always and in all ways the world opens up like a blossom.”
“Closed minds open the same doors, day after day. Like a prewritten play, it tells you what to say. I know I've gotten away.”
“Don't just question things assure yourself the answer and don't even stop there dare others to challenge it.”
“Feedback is my favorite word.”
“'Unconditional love' is like saying 'wet water'.”
“I smile at adversity, I'm just a walking university.”
“If you must speak ill of another, do not speak it, write it in the sand near the water's edge''”
“Do not wait; the time will never be ''just right.'' Start where you stand, and work with whatever tools you may have at your command, and better tools will be found as you go along.”
“If you want to meet Mark Twain, all you have to do is use your brain!”
“if a lesson in life is taught and your focused on what others are doing you will never pass the test focus on the teacher preacher ect. its time to learn your trials and tribulations will prepare your TEST-imony”
“Life's hardest lessons are also the most precious ones. they force us to face our own weaknesses and fears, also to unleash hidden strengths we never had.”
“Life without freedom is no life at all.”
“GOD has a reason for allowing things to happen. we may never understand His wisdom but we simply have to trust His will.”
“The perception of the sun as the gratitude clears the clouds at a glimpse.”
“Love is you; you and me”
“There is one advantage to having nothing, it never needs repair.”
“Yesterday was then, today is now, and lets not bourden ourselves with tomorrow. So enjoy your now, so tomorrow you can smile about your yesterday”
“One for the money, two for the show. The third is for you to do your best and go with the flow.”
“Loneliness is the poverty of self; solitude is the richness of self.”
“I don't know who my parents were, my responsibility now is to know who their daughter will be.”
“I am complete but I'm not finished.”
“At the end of the day, let there be no excuses, no explanation, no regrets.”
“Although time seems to fly by, it never travels faster than one day at a time. Each day is a new opportunity to live your life to the fullest.”
“It's inspiring to see all the wonderfully amazing things that can happen in a day in which you participate”
““ I don’t think we have a problem at the moment, it’s just that the solution is not understood””
“Someone who truly loves you deserve to have all your heart and attention! - Mordecai Uka Dike”
“If you hang out with chickens, you're going to cluck and if you hang out with eagles, you're going to fly.”
“The constant urge within man to hurt that which he cannot become.”
“Happiness lasts for a moment would just be a memory in few minutes so would sadness...Just as every single object as well as every other feeling in any creature. So why worries, admit what you are given in your birth and live to gain what you need , till your breath leaves you away...”
“You were not meant for a mundane or mediocre life!”
“It is important that we forgive ourselves for making mistakes. We need to learn from our errors and move on.”
“A wise man finds joy when he finds himself no longer a slave to his emotions.”
“Dare to know that you are worth every dream you can muster up in thought form. That is true freedom.”
“Indifference is the most lasting form of punishment”
“Thought Process is like a flow chart. The positive ones act like a motivational pill while the negative ones act like a disaster pit. If you take the motivational pill you are sure to succeed but if you delineate to disaster pit, failure will be yours forever.”
“Sometimes accepting others opinions when they are wrong will have yours accepted when you are right.”
“Responsibility is the key to an individual’s maturity.”
“Self Improvement can be achieved by accepting your enemy’s criticism”
“Competition among individuals is a funny thing. The more you concentrate on other progress you remain where you are and the other person overtakes you. ‘I am not in competition with anyone’ is a good attitude which helps everyone keep to themselves and also helps us in taking an upward trend in life’s sinusoidal wave.”
“Edge is a halfway to earth as to paradise, it's your choice either you fall or pursue your goal.”
“The only way to achieve freedom is to free your mind from the world we live in.”
“War, illness, and hunger, and now people started dying from lack of satisfaction, war can be stopped, people can be healed and fed but summer rain can't quench our thirst unless we find faith in ourselves.”
“Peace will never come about unless you find peace of mind.”
“Death is not the greatest loss in life. The greatest loss is what dies inside us while we live.”
“Watching a peaceful death of a human being reminds us of a falling star; one of a million lights in a vast sky that flares up for a brief moment only to disappear into the endless night forever.”
“If life isn't going the way you want it to, drive it in a different direction.”
“Have the courage to live. Anyone can die.”
“I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I have not lived.”
“Those who do not ask WHY, never know WHY.”
“Make sure the path you’re on is the right path or you’ll end up in the wrong place.”
“I may be a simple stone but I can shatter windows.”
“Every success story that you read would try to sell you a dream. A dream they turned into a reality for themselves. Not for me, not for you, but for themselves. But still it would compel you to buy that dream which is obviously not yours. So what you need to do is not get fascinated by that and continue pursuing your own dream. And someday, you will live your dream as a reality.”
“Never follow a double minded person, because his or her unstable ways will cause you a fatal accident! - Mordecai Uka”
“When you have a passion for travel, you make a commitment and relationship with the globe, similar to marriage, You promise to love honour and cherish. The good thing is, you can never divorce the globe. Welcome to the travel world.”
“Only brands sell in this world and Smart thinking helps you become the brand.”
“Hard work if used alone makes you tired but if you work hard along with Smart thinking you will definitely touch the peak of suceess.”
“I'm building, and following my own path to which I hope it takes me to my own paradise”
“My memories make my fairytale”
“When there is no legacy for you to follow, start the next one.”
“I must tell myself: "The day is just at the beginning with plenty more to come, good or bad here I am, I can take it, as long as I have some coffee"”
“You really fail when you sit back and try to understand why you failed.”
“If in our lifetime, if we can accomplish one amazing thing that encourages those we know and those that we do not know, to make an effort to do amazing things, then at this time we have accomplished amazing.”
“It's better to give everything your all than to be half-assing around at one point.”
“You soon become the characters you make...”
“" It's not really about keeping your head above water, it's about drowning the rest to your current. ””
“In order to find an answer to a question, one should know first what is wanted to be known. And if the question is finally constructed, look for the answers around God's created beauties, not from the limited grounds of human mind.”
“SAPNE TAB TAK DEKHO JAB TAK PURE NA HO”
“Adversity is not a feasible reason for a lack of success. It is just a notification that it will take commitment and hard work.”
“The truth Hurts,,A lies worst....so be honest first.”
“Success has no rules, just suggestions.”
“Music is true chicken soup for the soul. It can reveal what lies within our heart,mend broken hearts,revive discouraged hearts or be a steadfast source for inspiration. For those who have dreams you think will never come to pass music can provide an abundance of hope.”
“Leadership is helping to light the paths for people to take while letting then decide which road is right one for them.”
“Leadership is helping to light the paths for people to take while letting them decide which road is right one for them.”
“Hard work during hardships is painfully hard than hard work during otherwise!”
“Your definition of success arises from your definition of failure”
“The blade of revenge cuts twice.”
“Don’t be the one that regretted not being the one.”
“Life will blindside you. That is almost certain. How you respond is up to you.”
“Spent the whole day Understanding the Aesthetics of Illusion.., travelling far from the reality..., into different spheres of Illusion. What a beauty it is !!!
But still I am a confused if Reality itself is an Illusion with a different vocab...”
“Religion isn't the problem, it's the monster preaching it.”
“It's your beautiful soul that helps me go through this ugly world.”
“In all my life I have sought to be a 'quality human being'; to be considered a 'good human resource' can only be deemed as a bonus”
“I always Love my Life... Because that's the way I have chosen to Live...”
“You can always Complain ,"Nobody will Help you", time of Introspection will Tell, "YOU" have Completed that List with "YOU" !”
“IF IT CAN BE DONE TODAY, IT MOST LIKELY COULD HAVE BEEN DONE YESTERDAY.”
“Seek goodness everywhere, and when it is found, bring it out of its hiding place and let be free and unashamed.”
“You're Nobody but with God, He makes you Somebody.”
“The Body is not only an image but a sculpture that with years of work and dedication becomes a masterpiece of a lifetime”
“The body has a natural way of healing itself. The process is sevenfold when coupled with a touch from the people dear to us...”
“IF KILLING IS ONLY THE SOLUTION, THEN GOD WOULD HAVE NEVER GIVEN US THE CHOICE OF MERCY.”
“One who really Loves to be Happy, can never be unhappy.”
“Man always thinks about the past before he dies, as if he were frantically searching for proof that he truly lived.”
“There is a purpose in life, and it is very simple, just be happy.”
“No Matter How Gifted you are.. You alone cannot Change the World”
“love is d reason for a loner to live”
“Twitter is a good and powerful weapon that can be used to change the world.”
“I would rather live in a world where my life is surrounded by mystery than live in a world so small that my mind could comprehend it.”
“EXPECTATIONS WILL NOT SATISFY YOU EACH AND EVERY TIME.”
“There maybe a wasted time, wasted food, wasted water; but no prayer is ever wasted. God hears each single drop of it.”
“Love is rising, in truth uniting!”
“Count your blessings every day because we are all in God's waiting room”
“Very little of significance has ever been achieved without a goal first being set.”
“It is important that we forgive ourselves for making mistakes. We need to learn from our errors and move on.”
““A True Friend is someone who understands your past. Believes in your future and accepts you TODAY the way you are, regarldless what happend in your PAST.””
“Each day is too short for all the things I want to do, and all the people I want to spend some time with. So before this day is done I want to take time to say:
"Hello! I think of you, child of the living God. I pray that God will keep you in HIS care, shower you with HIS blessings and hold you in HIS love.''”
“The only limitations in your existence are the ones you create in your own mind, the invisible barriers we create in our psyche that tell us to stay in and watch T.V rather than run or remain silent when we have an opinion to express and the truth is it's easy to break down these barriers they may impede you but they cannot stop you when you decide enough is enough, It's time to really live.”
“the fruitful shortcuts of success are found out in d loopholes of faliure”
“Rise above mediocrity, get competitive edge and be a world class competitor instead of wasting time in strikes. Strike is not a solution and you can not run away from problems. Find a better way and you can find it. - Lalit Bhojwani”
“Photography is the presentation of mystery and enigma that has been hidden between light and darkness.”
“There's no such thing as unrealistic dreams, just small minded people who can't comprehend what you believe in.”
“Self-observation brings man to the realization of the necessity of self-change. And in observing himself a man notices that self-observation itself brings about certain changes in his inner processes. He begins to understand that self-observation is an instrument of self-change, a means of awakening.”
“Perhaps our eyes need to be washed by our tears once in a while, so that we can see Life with a clearer view again.”
“The mind is responsible for the feelings of pleasure and pain. Control of the mind is the highest Yoga.”
“A person with imagination is greater than 10,000 knowledgable people put together.”
“The distance between how we dream life is and how life is in reality, is up to you.”
“There are nothing called Problems, they are just the normal things that can't be solved or handled by you”
“a single flinch of distrust can cause a twin waterspout in the pool of friendship”
“When you look around, what do you see?
If you have faith, every thing is a miracle and every one is a blessing. If you have none, no thing and no one can make you happy...”
“the loneliest place in the universe ain't the place where you are all alone by yourself...it's rather the place where people around you make you feel like you don't belong...”
“It is not how much you do, but how much love you put in the doing.”
“It is not what is said but who said it”
“You'll never see a rainbow if you never look up!”
“Some people think their problems are just the way life is.”
“Never get upset of a bad day. When you feel down think that it could be even worst. Take the lesson, pat your own shoulder and say 'never mind' with a gentle smile and get ready for the next combat.”
“Every victory in life breeds new enthusiasm,but every defeat kills old enthusiasm.”
“Searching for an unserious person in life,just look for the person without a pen,the person has no pen because he/she has no ideas to jot down.”
“At the age of 101 my great uncle told me: "To stay young,you must always think young and act young but always carry your head over your shoulders."”
“Love cannot be commanded”
“music inspires me, so does Jesus. you just can't separate me from both of them.”
“Many years ago she was the girl who had the world at her feet.”
“Don't speak evil of someone if you don't know for certain, and if you do know ask yourself, why am I telling it?”
“Nails are the canvas. Polish is the paint. Brushes, dotting tools, and sponges allow for the designing. While the steady hand of a Nail Artist is where it all begins.”
“Nobody wants to look back...but I do, because I like seeing people going back there from where I just came...!”
“Verily, veliry, I say unto you, he that heareth my word, and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation; but is passed from death unto life. John 5:24”
“There is no light without darkness.
There is no good without evil.
There is no end without beginning.
There is no love without hate.
And...there is no me without you.”
“...the lighter you feel, the more accurate your perception...”
“...Self respect is your best defense....”
“Knowledge is light and ignorance is darkness, when the light comes darkness hides but its still present”
“Time is an illusion, you have always been and you will always be. It’s only now that has most but not always all of your attention.”
“Don't sit and wait expecting something interesting to happen. Make something with the special gifts God gave you: your talent, a weapon to help you through life and an arrow that can shoot you far.”
“Ideas, inspiration, talents and skills are power. The more we have, the bigger our responsibility is.”
“We live in a world where- Emotion is the actor, Fate is the director, Energy is the producer. Life is the only movie made with audience in the cast!”
“One of the greatest keys to getting what you want in life is to ask for it.”
“I choose to think about possibilities rather than probabilities. It makes life far more interesting and exciting.”
“Be yourself; everyone else is already taken.”
“Learn as much as you can while you are young, this is best investment that always pays best interest & dividends, since life becomes too busy later.”
“You cannot get success just by reading the others' inspiration success stories and quotes and do nothing to improve.”
“Thousands have lived without love, not one without water.”
“You have to have a dream so you can get up in the morning.”
“Like a grand master in a game of chess, I too plan moves ahead, in the game of life.”
“Dream often... Pursue always... Regret nothing... Enjoy everyday... LIVING THE DREAM FOUNDATION”
“Since the dawn of Man, emotions have been behind the undoing of that which we create. However, emotions are the necessary motivator for our creations. The key to any success is to find a way to have our emotions work for us and not us working for it.”
“Books are the treasured wealth of the world and the fit inheritance of generations and nations.”
“Not making mistakes is learning nothing new,
or making a bigger mistake by not making the mistake in the first place.”
“Nothing inspires honesty like fear or trouble.”
“If everything was run by god, then we would just be dummies,
I guess everyone is there own god, making individual decisions.”
“No one can change something completely, they can only make a difference.”
“When I have to move...I walk, when I have to speak...I talk, when I have to look...I see, I am just being me”
“It’s not the big moment in your life that makes you who you are, but rather the small moments that lead you there.”
“Questions are only offensive to those who have something to hide”
“The future is shaped by what the past has to offer... So if your shapes don't quite look like you planned, its probably because you borrowed a blueprint.”
“We all have dreams, it's up to us to live it”
“Within all the dark lies, there is a bright truth, you just have to find it”
“Allow fear to compel your change; only change can save you now.”
“Complacency is home to death row; escape contentment and start Living The Dream.”
“You will always have time for what you make time for.”
“I Love You because I can.”
“Adult’s wishful dreams are children’s daily playtime realities.”
“Removing toxicity from your life is essential to maintaining a peaceful state of mind and an overall quality of health. This purging can and should include any detrimental habits, including negative, controlling, and abusive people. Once you start living an empowered lifestyle that supports your own higher balance, you will find it to be an easy transition from the negative to the positive in every aspect of your life.”
“The smallest component of the human molecule is a vibration - the equivalent to a musical note. Taking the time to learn more self-awareness at this level creates life experiences beyond that of all the greatest symphonies ever heard.”
“Before you externally manifest a blissful life, you have to become blissful from within”
“Recognize every time before doing anything
that you always do a miracle.”
“In life, you must always know that knowledge is power.”
“Unfortunately, fact checking has become a lost art.”
“Sometime if you look up in the sky.
There is a path of your destiny.”
“Inner Awareness is often gained in incremental steps at first. The distraction of the perceived physical world dictates this. However, once one realizes this process, a new skill in “awareness recognition” emerges… and like riding a bike for the first time, one peddles faster, gaining confidence in their new skill, a skill that will take them much farther than any distraction previously experienced.”
“Recognize every time before doing anything
that you always do a miracle.”
“Meditation is an excellent habit and tool for transformation, however your ‘practice’ should eventually evolve into your natural primary state of being.”
“We face a new world everyday, try to understand them
and love them more than our yesterday.”
“We face a new world everyday, try to understand them
and love them more than our yesterday.”
“We face a new world everyday, try to understand them
and love them more than our yesterday.”
“Words are there to express things, actions are there to make them.”
“If you need something inspirational, just point up to the top of your vision.”
“Brave is the warrior within we must demonstrate, if not for ourselves, then at least for our loved ones.”
“If you need something inspirational, just point up to the top of your vision.”
“This time is strange for me. I feel like I'm changing. I like that, in a way. And even though everything is confusing, I'm not afraid. I'm just ready for something to work. I want to find that person who can make me whole, and who knows maybe I already have.”
“The present is a place where being better than others is irrelevant.”
“To be the local champion of your village is good,but to be the local champion of the universe is the best.”
“Curiosity killed the cat so the creator of the public school system and all the countries that support it did the most curious thing they forced people to learn things they did not want to know about to avoid being curious and still learn things”
“As long as you start something, it's always your duty to finish it.”
“In life, sometimes the friend who cares for you the most tends to upset you alot.”
“There is nothing called SMART WORK, it's just the EXPERIENCED version of HARD WORK”
“A human would truly show their strength if they have the power to turn their thoughts into realities.”
“Thought arises from the mind, but thoughtfulness emerges from the heart.”
““Art is about trying to find the good in people and making the world a more compassionate place.””
“In life sometimes love throws it self at you, but not everything given is to be accepted.”
“nobody is smart, nobody is dumb, it's all about how well you use your mind.”
“When I look back on how beautiful today was, and to know it’s just a hint of what Heaven has to offer, it gets me excited.”
“A good HEAD and a good HEART are more important than a good FACE or a good FIGURE, but of course all FOUR would be nice to have.”
“I am very PATIENT with my PATIENCE.”
“LIFE is just like a MUSIC. We have TRACKS, we PLAY, FAST FORWARD, REWIND, PAUSE, and sometimes we just need to STOP.”
“A man learning to fly should not only meet the eagle but must also meet the swift (a bird with acrobatic flying skills) and a bat (a mammal that can fly almost blind and in darkness without bumping onto anything).And so is a man learning to survive in water, should not only meet the whale but also the octopus (famous for tricks and survival in deep sea water) and a crab (famous for being amphibious).”
“Sometimes the darkest corner has to be visited to open a new corner of light.”
“They look at me in hate and disgust, one day i WILL prove to them that I am one of a kind.”
“This world is a sick and twisted place full of love”
“Let us stop life from living us and let us start living life”
“The path less traveled presents a prosperous view for the brave.”
“With each sunrise we start a new beginning.
We are given a new day to make up for our mistakes of yesterday.
We have a fresh start to say today will be better.
By embracing hope, we visualize how the world should be
And on the day we recognize that our fate is controlled by our actions, we enable our inner strength to conquer our fears of the unknown.”
“You lift me up and always will.”
“Who your parents are and the history of your family doesn't really matter, what matters is what you choose to be”
“The fact that I inspire you - inspires me.”
“I have become a stronger person filled with hope, no matter how I am treated I know who I am and I know that I can be me”
“Don't be blindfolded by wins or losses. Treat them equally, but draw motivation from both.”
“That you made a mistake does not reduce who you are”
“For awhile I was happy until something hit me, now...I somehow feel hurt, angry and sad. Never be afraid to express how you feel, it's better to let it out than to keep it in.”
“As a human, we must try our best not to use 'F' words, especially FEAR.”
“You have just one life to live, make the most of it”
“Find true love in your surroundings, live life, be smart be reckless, be spontaneous.. but above all never fall in love”
“Live your life do what you want to do. If no one understands it , know you do and that is all that matters!”
“Violin, has always been the instrument that hides a musical story full with harmonies and beautiful chords, to the story be revealed, you must just hear it”
“Things which matter for all moments are offensive to all those who want other moments to matter.”
“To know is beautiful. To understand expands knowledge. To act upon creates change.”
“To know is beautiful. To understand expands knowledge. To act upon creates change.”
“In life, we must never let a day pass us without being able to answer this simple question, 'what have i learnt new today'.”
“Our weaknesses are like holes
through which God's grace could shine.”
“We must never underestimate anything or anyone, for in life sometimes the smallest may be the most important.”
“Life is neither as simple as it seems...nor as complicated as we make it!!!”
“Meditation is the food of the wise.”
“Happiness is the kindling of a good fire created by the right spark. Robert Rawson 2010”
“I will provide the money that you need, why will I have money and see you in need?”
“The most ignorant of all people is a person who is self assured in their premature decisions.”
“Attention Energizes, NO matter whether it's Positive or negative...”
“Small or big, every dream can be achieved. Your role is to believe and pursue it”
“Do not boast regarding extended fortunes, for what flies up, will most certainly come crashing down. Instead, rejoice in all prosperity, knowing change summons all things.”
“If you don't take time, time will take you.”
“when you try your hardest and fail, that was the training for later”
“It's just the right mix of genius and volatility that inevitably defines true legend.”
“To be the best is a choice you make on your own”
“Those who cannot face the truth are condemned to make war against it.”
“Be civil to all, sociable to many, familiar with few, friend to one, enemy to none”
“Absence sharpens love, presence strengthens it.”
“To succeed, jump as quickly at opportunities as you do at conclusions.”
“the contentment of making some one happy is noting in comparison to enjoyment of thyself”
“You can create your own success”
“Love, smiles and hugs surmount disease and depression; I’ve seen it with my own eyes. I love you Living The Dream family.”
“Once you said it, You should forever mean it!!!”
“I've learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.”
“"But I'm "DOING" it.. and that is what "MATTERS the most!" ~~ ©pdsherwood, 2013”
“Why look at other people's accomplishments when you can have your own.”
“If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be lost; that is where they should be.Now put foundations under them.”
“Optimism is key to Perseverance”
“Todos somos del mismo lugar, somos de la tierra y no creo en fronteras.”
“In this life you can stop many things but time waits on no one.”
“Oh, what I gotta say to you
You got love
Don’t turn it down
Turn it loud
Let it build
We got a long way to go
But you, ya gotta start somewhere”
“The one who dies with the largest family wins.”
“Live an ecstatic life, for your smile can make anyone happy.”
“Life is an unending adventure”
“The key to success is failure”
“I thought I was looking for prince charming, turns out what I really needed was the Prince of Peace.”
“I was searching for prince charming but God gave me the Prince of Peace.”
“I dreamed of meeting prince charming but the Prince of Peace swept me off my feet.”
“If god's A creator then we can all be god's. If god's THE creator then let god's help day-dreamer's.”
“My mind writes books that will never be read”
“One of the most beautiful qualities of true friendship is to understand and to be understood.”
“At first I thought that i am breaking apart, But now i am going to realize that it was just the dusting.”
““Eating is an agricultural act.””
“Waves are the smiles of a river. The river will always smile when anything gets on it”
“The heart is the only broken instrument that works.”
“Life pays for performance; you get out of it what you pay forward.”
“We are a generation of prophets, speaking words that shape our lives and world”
“Your best moments in life is yet to come, expect it”
“Sometimes, we need to hold on and not give up, even when we feel like giving up”
“In every situation expect the best, not the worst”
“Beauty is the strongest weapon is to inspire”
“The true purpose of my life was to conceive children and give them birth. WHY? I sometimes wonder...and a little voice says to me....WHY NOT? MAYBE THEY ARE PART OF WHAT COULD SAVE THIS WORLD.”
“When we use imagination there is no limitation.
It's coming as a light in your heart and transform
into form”
“Victory is the supreme vengeance in life.”
“Just follow your dream, and the money will follow you”
“Why wait around thinking about doing something, when you could be thinking about why you were waiting to do it?”
“There is no crime in saying NO! Sometimes, you just have to”
“Commonality shows that we all get the same amount of hours per day. Reality shows that we all use them in different ways. Diversity comes from reality, which began with commonality. Simply put, one may chose to keep fighting for success no matter their troubles, and one may chose to give up and willingly settle; the amount of work is the same. So again, change is not a threat, its reality. Survival is not a goal, its commonality. Success is not a given, that’s diversity.”
“Dreaming is important in life,even when you don't know when your dreams will enentually materialise,just keep dreaming.”
“Strugglin' end's with happiness..! - sUJu Gasim”
“Don't try to change people. Be a life example”
“When the shadows take over our hearts, that is when the most damage will be done. We will no longer we weak and fragile, we will be angry and strong. But in the end is it worth loosing everything to no longer be weak?”
“Failure is just a word. A word that keeps me motivated to achieve a great success in the future.”
“What is the significance of your existence? Is your legacy worth sharing with others, or are you content with extinction? Start Living The Dream today to chronicle a life of prominence.”
“Failure is nothing to be afraid of. If you can manipulate that failure, then a great success will be yours. Beleive me.”
“A true friend knows your weaknesses but shows you your strengths; feels your fears but fortifies your faith; sees your anxieties but frees your spirit; recognizes your disabilities but emphasizes your possibilities.”
“Laziness cannot drive out failure, only hardwork can do it- Omotayo ayodele”
“The way teachers instruct their students does make a difference to how they learn.”
“Remain unique. Just be you”
“A man’s capacity is usually relative to his goals.”
“Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect.”
“Shattered dreams are the mosaics we lay on our pathway to success.”
“Irresponsible behavior belongs to the immature”
“Create yourself , be who you are don't let anyone tell you to do it differently..”
“I've learned that no matter what happens, or how bad it
seems today, life does go on, and it will be better tomorrow. I've learned that
you can tell a lot about a person by the way he/she handles these three things:
a rainy day, lost luggage, and tangled Christmas tree lights. I've learned that
regardless of your relationship with your parents, you'll miss them when they're
gone from your life. I've learned that making a living is not the same thing as
making a life. I've learned that life sometimes gives you a second chance. 
I've learned that you shouldn't go through life with a catcher's mitt on both
hands; you need to be able to throw some things back. I've learned that whenever
I decide something with an open heart, I usually make the right decision. I've
learned that even when I have pains, I don't have to be one. I've learned that
every day you should reach out and touch someone. People love a warm hug, or
just a friendly pat on the back. I've learned that I still have a lot to learn. 
I've learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you
did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.”
“IMPOSSIBLE IS CREATED”
“Stand where they can see you”
“Your talent is a gift. Develop it”
“Carefulness of thought empowers the mind, elevates the soul, and establishes the character”
“When I'm inspired, I get excited because I can't wait to see what I'll come up with next.”
“The fulfillment of a man's life lies in the understanding of his purpose”
“Let not your ability to speak be deemed more important than your ability to be still in your silence”
““Rain. Tumble, bumble and, fall on me. Any old day, any old way. Come for a visit, or come for a stay. Rain, rain, don't go away.”
― Carew Papritz, The Legacy Letters: His Wife, His Children, His Final Gift”
“From mothers come the first steps of a child, and the ideals that will shape a hero. So important is the role of mothers in our society, yet they are so unappreciated.”
“The power to train your mind is within you. Train well, train hard, be consistent and blossom into the True You.”
“Our lives are indeed the story of what we do today & the every day that lies ahead. The todays are the sum of our lives.”
“Shaken and marked deeply so,
Heart bared open rent asunder,
Eyes dew-drops in the morning chill,
Laboring fight to let go.”
“To walk through a puddle or around it? God put it there for you to deciede. Walking around it might get your feet muddy but, walking through it might clean your shoes...You can get something out of anything God puts in front of you; it's your decision what you get out of it, it's all a lesson to be learned.”
“The best time to do something, is when no one told you to do it.”
“There is beauty in every one”
“Let there be no purpose in friendship save the deepening of the spirit.”
“To be successful, you have to want it and work towards it”
“I have the greatest responsibility of my life...it's called MYSELF.”
“Life can't go on forever, we never know when it could end.
Money don't last forever, still we keep more than we spend.
Not every road was made straight, sometimes you gotta bend.
So why F#ck the world, when we know it's gonna end!!!”
“Dreams do come through, i have seen it happen again and again”
“I love you, not for what you are, but for what I am when I am with you.”
“Knowing higher truths ensure that we have a larger perspective where all other things fall in place or start making sense.”
“We know the truth of a matter when we are able to see and understand it. The truth does not change, only our perception of the truth changes depending on how clearly we see and how much we understand.”
“Self-realization or self-knowing or awakening is about knowing/ becoming conscious of our true nature and living in harmony with the universe in an ever ascending order.”
“I know the Bible is inspired because it inspires me”
“Whether you practice a traditional religion or a universal version of spirituality, it is necessary to keep an open mind for learning and growing.”
“True Love is a special present hidden by God, it's up to you to find it.”
“We become a master of something only when we know the truth of it. Similarly, when we know the truth of our soul and the oneness of the Universe then we are a Master of Life.”
“When you can see without your eyes, you will then see past the disguise.”
“Who so loves believes the impossible.”
“Look around; world is full of inspiration.”
“I don't photograph in color, I don't photograph in black and white, I photograph in truth.”
“Courage is the only thing you can not afford to sacrifice; your dreams will cease, if you forfeit courage.”
“Each perception of life has a meaning as long as the heart is one of the eyes...because if I die tonight, let it be, I already knew it”
“Our future is the next second!”
“Inspiration is only a matter of state!
Yet a number of us believe that something or someone else gives that fate!
If I am unique, I do accept that I am the only one who brings that effort...
Therefore I am this inspiration in time of comfort
Nevertheless, never more than less, I find myself the finesse of the noblesse....”
“While you're wasting your time quarreling on wrong things which happened already, I sit quietly and try to make them right.”
“Why not live each day like it's a price you have to pay”
“Truth is that even the people you've always modeled yourself after and looked up to, may not end up being what you thought. Set your focus on Jesus Christ, he is the only one that promises to never change.”
“Give up the giving up!”
“~Sometimes the "water" doesn't taste as good to others as it does to you. Although the taste isn't preferred, it all absorbs the same way.~”
“~ If you keep the doors closed, the breeze will still blow, it just won't reach you.~”
“~ The more you create contrast with the divine you by creating and submitting to control of something outside of you, the more you create static in your surroundings. Consider yourself a balloon, the foundation of your being is within, it's what expands you, your creating static by leaning on the outside source~”
“There is no point drumming up noise about a cause, if you are not willing to take a beating for it.”
“~ Love should not be measured, but treasured no matter what form it is received.  Don't dwell on labels and classifications they only hinder you from loves experience. ~”
“~ Always keep the one that makes you better, the one that makes you look within, the one that won't accept less than what they know you can be, for it is that one that will help you soar to great heights. ~”
“~ Consistently focusing on what is wrong is like clamping the umbilical cord to all that is right. ~”
“~ An expansion of countless breathes, starry gazes, voices, endless embraces, smiling faces, nothing short of amazement, how do you vision a world without the ego? ~”
“~ "Life In A Nutshell" is such a limited way of being, break the mold and soar above the limits that you bind yourself to. ~”
“~ Spirit creates through the physical shell we identify as our body. Emanating that which we perceive as material or dense matter through light vibration variations. The more the spirit or light body grows within, the more it can wield without, changing the density of matter into whatever form one so desires through manifestations of intention. Perceive the self as nothing and you have everything. ~”
“War in the body. Soldier in the heart. Peace in the soul. Love off the chart.”
“‎~ Some strive for the simple things in life. I strive for what's said to be impossible, while making it look simple. ~”
“Tumhara kaam... kaam. Hamara kaam 'facepalm'.”
“Why are you angry? Are you sure, you are not hungry?”
“Consistent perfection comes from mastering a skill and it's application.”
“Be kind with your thoughts, caring with your words, and gentle in your actions.”
“ Man is like a single glowing ember which can burn out or become a raging inferno! ”
“The conviction in the phrase ‘I know’ is the eternal darkness we all love to dream in and are smitten with”
“Perfer et obdura; dolor hic tibi proderit olim.”
“There is at least one truth to every myth, and it takes one truth to create a lie. Lies can be formed from Truth; however, Truth cannot be formed from lies.”
“It seems as if we are all looking at life through a glass window. At times it seems the view is clear as we look out to see the sun shining. At times it is dark and gloomy. At times it is broken. And there are times when the window seems more like a barrier. However, true knowledge comes when we realize that our attempts are futile. A window can only face one direction. To learn the truth we must step outside of our homes.”
“Thing's which don't matter to the mind aren't positive nor negative.”
“ Allowing yourself to get lost is the quickest route to finding your way”
“Life is to short for me to have short dreams.”
“Rember The Past ...
Live The Present ...
Think About The Future ...”
“Always remember that there will be a source of light at the end of every dark tunnel. You just need to reach there......”
“To all who wants to commit suicide: If there are reasons to die then there are reasons to live. And defiantly reasons to live will be far better.”
“Move is reality; And it make us alive.”
“A lot of people can dream at night, confined to their beds. But it is the dreamers of the day that are the most dangerous as they have the potential to make them reality.”
“Don't let it hold you back, Never let it rule you're life, Be proud of who you are, And show the world what you can do. Some say Diabetes is a label, It is but I would wear that label emblazoned across my back every day if I could. Instead I wear it on my hip in the form of an insulin pump , And I wear that label with pride, All day every day just to say I am me and I will never deny myself for the sake of others.”
“I love working with people who are inspired and obsessive.”
“Life's irony;If you work harder,things then become easier.”
“As men “think” they are chasing sex and women “think” they are chasing relationships, when it comes to LOVE the dynamics reverse. This is why men and women are yin and yang! Men fall in love through spending quality casual time with a woman and women fall in love through the physical and emotional connectedness of sex. Be careful. End of story.”
“The reason why we have drama with friends is because they passionately care about you.”
“life is just a beautiful story our souls play out”
“To be consistent & persistent is to be called a genius.”
“A lot of people talk the same things about change over the years.”
“The world is looking for something new, and that could be you. Be yourself, be original”
“You may have a fresh start any moment you choose, for this thing that we call "failure" is not falling down, but the staying down.”
“““In the past people used to make communication in English as simple as possible, so that many people could understand what they are trying to say. But, I think today people complicate English communication so that many people don't understand what they are trying to say.”””
“First learn to lose, then learn to love what you gain.”
“You are what keeps you from”
“Even the brain needs regular spring cleaning of unhealthy negative thoughts.”
“Even if you stand against a million people, as long as you stand for what you believe in, you can stand alone.”
“Either you choose to let the environment control you, or you can control your environment…the choice is yours.”
“Step inside your own world and weave your own destiny…as you spin the yarn of fate into a picturesque tapestry of life.”
“never give up, no matter how hard you try”
“You don’t need a spotlight to be in the limelight; you are your own light.”
“You don’t need a title to be a leader; you are your own path.”
“In life, the most beautiful memories are always remembered by leaving a pathway of petals on your destined journey.”
“There is only one universal language; the language spoken by the heart…love.”
“My religion is Peace, my race; humanity, my culture; love and my tradition is complete faith.”
“No matter how poor you may be, it's never too much to buy someone a smile.”
“life is just a beautiful story that our souls play out”
“Sometimes in life we are meant to meet but not meant to be”
“Only YOU have the power to unleash your own destiny.”
“Always treasure that strength which holds your ladder firm as they are your foundation of support. If that collapses you will fall...even from great heights.”
“YOU are the captain of your own ship; Only YOU can navigate your own destiny.”
“To have more... Be more. Do more. Give more.”
“Faith is the architecture of our lives creating pillars of foundation where we cannot sway, building bridges high above our fears and engineering skyscrapers of limitless success.”
“The whole of nature is worship of God. Wherever there is life, there is the search for freedom--and this freedom is the same as God”
“It’s not about changing our attitude, it’s about changing our perception because when that changes, everything else transforms.”
“To be loved is very demoralizing”
“Painting is poetry in pictures as music is poetry in notes.”
“You can not reduce stress in your life if you hold on to or attach yourself to those who volunteer themselves to it.”
“Life in itself is a continuous learning experience with numerous trials and tests; of which the greatest degree I am yet to attain...a Master's in Life.”
“Stories that teach, stories that heal: these are the stories people need to hear...”
“The world can be seen as a masquerade, a dance of the mind; some can mask tears with smiles; some can mask smiles with tears…but you cannot mask your identity and heart to yourself.”
“I am here on Earth to extend love, smiles and hope to all mankind.”
“Ideas and ideals Have a Heart and IF your idea is big enough, its heart will CONQUER the world”
“Before I met my mother, God had led me into this world; and before I meet my fate, He shall lead me out as well. I was never alone, I am not alone, nor shall I ever be alone.”
“In my friendship garden, where many species of roses, violets, marigolds are found swaying in the wind, we still live in harmony with tolerance and respect.”
“Desire, emotion and knowledge are all equally powerful and simultaneously destructive.”
“If you believe in yourself, the correct decision always follows.”
“Forgiveness is an anti-virus for the soul. Keep updating it and your soul will be devoid of viruses.”
“To dream or not to dream, a mystery it may seem, for is my dream an extension of my reality or my reality an extension of my dream.”
“A true leader encompasses both EQ (emotional quotient) and IQ (intelligent quotient) where he rules from his head, but leads with his heart.”
“Do not reside in the past; live in the now and forge your dreams forward.”
“a poet is heard threw rumours”
“You can't force magic...but you can be prepared, rested and in balance while it is on it's way”
“Some people talk to people just to keep their friendship, it's not worth it.”
“What is most important is facing every moment, be it good or bad, in a positive manner.”
“Life is the symbol of Art.”
“M.C & N.M = US, but love is the definition of two heart's that have found true love, therefore love = US.”
“To have had my father this long on earth, just means i'll have him forever as my Angel.”
“Life is about one thing, living it to the fullest.”
“Life is energy ,create yourself from it and be who you are. And if you believe in anything believe in that...”
“The journey of the soul is timeless and infinite.”
“How would your life be different if…You didn’t allow yourself to be defined by your past? Let today be the day…You stop letting your history interfere with your destiny and awaken to the opportunity to release your greatest self.”
“Each friend holds a key to a new door, a unique world; some doors already closed, some stay open and others are waiting to be discovered.”
“Reading & thinking are two of a kind,for they are both very difficult to execute.”
“How would your life be different if…You stopped validating your victim mentality? Let today be the day…You shake off your self-defeating drama and embrace your innate ability to recover and achieve.”
“Life is good but its not a bed of roses. that's why heaven exist.”
“You're a Professional. Think like one. Talk like one . Walk like one. Act like one and YOU Will Be The One!”
“All it takes is a single moment for your light to shine through”
“Being normal is fake,
But being you is true.”
“The universal law of generosity ensures both the giver and recipient profit.”
“If you give up on your dreams,your dreams will also give up on you.”
“I don’t want you to be the victim of circumstance, I want you to be the owner of the moment.”
“Let it go, ALLOW yourself to be happy”
“The journey of change doesn’t begin when you intend, it begins when you move.”
“Fear is a mental projection of something that has not happened.”
“I am participating in the evolution of inspired action.”
“If you want something different, DO something different. Without change progress is impossible.”
“Love is an ocean of emotions entirely surrounded by expenses.”
“Words pulsate in the veins of my pen.”
““Life is full of surprises. Good and bad. If we fall, we need to learn to get up and smell the air we breathe, even if the air is polluted, because it is life regardless.””
“NOTHING CAN STOP YOU FROM ACHIEVING WHAT YOU WANT, BUT YOURSELF!”
“A tough lesson we must learn in life is that....NOT everyone is going to wish you well, not everyone is going to please you....but oh well, push them 2 the side..keep that pretty little head up, and that awesome attitude and never lose focus of your goals, because.... YOU WILL GET THERE!!!!”
“LIfe is a journey....Take all those little moments and own them, cherish them...hold them them close..never let those moments you had than escape from the reminder to yourself of where you are now.”
“If there is ever a time in my life when I feel that I just cant go on...I remember every time in the past that I have said that...and the best choice I have ever made was to continue and never give up, in all those little heart breaking, life shaking, life testing moments...just keep going, for once you are down...the only way you can go is up!”
“The wise person forsees a probem before the rest of the people see it.”
“For that dream to ever materialize,you only need one ingredient,belief.”
“In life lets not be content with the status quo,but rather lets be content in recreating a new status quo.”
“And the day came when the risk to remain tight in a bud was more painful than the risk it took to blossom.”
“Just mortality is certain™”
“Boredom for me always brought out a different side of me, it always drive me to do more in terms of creativity.”
“At different stages of my life I made different mistakes, at times costly ones. But I never for once regretted my mistakes, I always learnt from them in such a way that I make such mistakes only once.”
“No human being ever learns to live until he has awakened to the dormant powers within him”
“Nothing is possible, only until attempted...”
“Your vision will become clear only when you look into your heart. Who looks outside, dreams. Who looks inside, awakens.”
“To be skeptical is a good thing because only the Holy Spirit can prove you otherwise.”
“To witness the birth of a child is our best opportunity to experience the meaning of the word miracle.”
“Never let ones that are misled, mislead you.”
“No other natural bodily function is painful and childbirth should not be an exception.”
“Birth is an experience that demonstrates that life is not merely function and utility, but form and beauty.”
“Mock our youth. Then we mock ourselves. Our youth are the product of us.”
“Unbelief breeds poverty.”
“Birth is not only about making babies. Birth is about making mothers ~ strong, competent, capable mothers who trust themselves and know their inner strength.”
“I know this will end soon and my feelings of sorrow are turning towards hate, we as one are terminally ill it's only a matter of time before our souls leave this place we created for us both.
What's left is haunt. Soon to be a place we take our next first love, these memories will taint and corrupt like a blood thirst demon causing more trauma then it's worth. Leaving hopeless running heartbeat corpses in seek for a pulse we've taken for our own broken bodies.”
“Welcome to the future, it’s called tomorrow. How will tomorrow look? You get to choose.”
“Every second you waste wondering how they reached the top, is one second further you are away from reaching the top”
“Confront the dark parts of yourself, and work to banish them with illumination and forgiveness. Your willingness to wrestle with your demons will cause your angels to sing. Use the pain as fuel, as a reminder of your strength.”
“You are who you are if you don't like it FIX IT!”
“You are expected to bring yourself to the struggle of life, surprise everyone and bring the unthinkable with, your enemies”
“If you go through life blinded, you will bump into everything, open your eyes to plan around life's obstacles”
“If your doing Gods will , you wont have time to do as you will”
“You have the potential for greatness, don't stand in your own way...”
“Most entrepreneurs build businesses they hate, to enable them to buy things they don’t need, to impress people they don’t even like.”
“listen to feedback, act on behavior”
“There is something magical that happens when you get brilliant minds and unconventional thinkers in a room.”
“When you hit rock bottom you'll be left with 2 things... Your word, and your network. Never tarnish your word, and always invest in your network.”
“Joy lies in the fight, in the attempt, in the suffering involved, not in the victory itself”
“When you're an entrepreneur, ignorance and confidence can go a long way.”
“The greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judged by the way its animals are treated”
“I know it may seem small and insignificant but its not about what it is, its about what it can become.”
“If we wish to create a lasting peace we must begin with the children.”
“This time every year,we exchange gifts but half of the people don't know the meaning of christmas.To understand christmas you must understand Christ and the teachings of the bible.”
“Anger and intolerance are the twin enemies of correct understanding”
“Whatever you do may seem insignificant, but it is most important that you do it”
“Have you ever noticed that anybody driving slower than you is an idiot, and anyone going faster than you is a maniac?”
“If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough”
“The world is a dangerous place. Not because of the people who are evil; but because of the people who don't do anything about it.”
“The struggle captures the spirit”
“Three Rules of Work: Out of clutter find simplicity; From discord find harmony; In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity.”
“Dream works because dream works.”
“Strange is our situation here upon earth. Each of us comes for a short visit, not knowing why, yet sometimes seeming to a divine purpose. From the standpoint of daily life, however, there is one thing we do know: That we are here for the sake of others...for the countless unknown souls with whose fate we are connected by a bond of sympathy. Many times a day, I realize how much my outer and inner life is built upon the labors of people, both living and dead, and how earnestly I must exert myself in order to give in return as much as I have received.”
“No Girl or guy should ever bring you down,just keep your head up and know theirs someone better waiting for you.”
“The love we have in our youth is superficial compared to the love that an old man has for his old wife.”
“I construct tangibility out of thin air, dreams.”
“We never have to be uncertain when we have the God of truth and righteousness.”
“If the facts don't fit the theory, change the facts.”
“I listen patiently and quietly to my past. I feel and breathe in the present . I speak loudly and clearly to my future.”
“Live your life as if your were a palm tree. Excel in every field that you find yourself.”
“Love and friendship exclude each other”
“I never teach my pupils; I only attempt to provide the conditions in which they can learn.”
“Our death is not an end if we can live on in our children and the younger generation. For they are us, our bodies are only wilted leaves on the tree of life.”
“There are two kinds of mindsets in life;The employee mindset & the employer mindset.”
“The pursuit of truth and beauty is a sphere of activity in which we are permitted to remain children all our lives.”
“I cannot conceive of a God who rewards and punishes his creatures, or has a will of the kind that we experience in ourselves. Neither can I nor would I want to conceive of an individual that survives his physical death; let feeble souls, from fear or absurd egoism, cherish such thoughts. I am satisfied with the mystery of the eternity of life and with the awareness and a glimpse of the marvelous structure of the existing world, together with the devoted striving to comprehend a portion, be it ever so tiny, of the Reason that manifests itself in nature.”
“It only takes courage to advance hopelessly towards hope.”
““Imagination is more important than knowledge. For knowledge is limited to all we now know and understand, while imagination embraces the entire world, and all there ever will be to know and understand.” -- Einstein”
“Success is the ability to go from one failure to another with no loss of enthusiasm.”
“Courage is what it takes to stand up and speak; courage is also what it takes to sit down and listen.”
“Continuous effort - not strength or intelligence - is the key to unlocking our potential”
“Everything we do is simply the expression of who and what we think we are...”
“You must do the thing you think you cannot do”
“"It always surprises me the way people look at me, what are they thinking, i guess i will never know,”
“"Its being different what makes us stand out from the crowed its what makes us who we are, if you make a mistake don't worry, we are only human, and its that what makes us truly great”
“There are so many opportunities that we encounter in our life. But some are so subtle that if we don't keep our eyes and our ears open, they will pass us by.
Pay attention to your surroundings!”
“Your greatest source of learning is failure.”
“Don't look the poor with deadpan and be ebullient about that, remember we don't know our tomorrow.”
“The only person crazier than the entrepreneur is the investor.”
“It is the science of design married with the creativity of business.”
“For us entrepreneurs, the plan isn't to be successful. The plan is to be worthy of success.”
“A self made one thousand is more respectable than an inherited one billion.”
“You have to get up on your feet if you need something. And then you go and use your soul to create something that's yours.”
“Give up when you run out of electricity. When it runs out, learn how to build a working generator. Then, go back to whatever you were doing.”
“If you are consistently left feeling like a fool by the people in your company at the end of each day, that’s when you know you’ve succeed in putting together the right team.”
“If you can see yourself doing what you love in a multi-million dollar beautiful office building as well as working in an unfinished basement in your parents home, then you have truly found your passion.”
“Execution is the best part of Learning.”
“Sometimes, you are your best company.”
“If you keep on doing what you do, you'll keep on getting what you get.”
“Live the life that you dream”
“It's not always easy to take the high road but the view is certainly better”
“Stamp an unforgettable impression on somebody’s life today.”
“The sky is not the limit.”
“Dream also means ,come make the impossible possible.”
“The cowardly thinker is here to live a mediocre life,but the valiant thinker is here to live life to the fullest.”
“As a well spent day brings happy sleep, so a life well spent brings happy death.”
“A negative mind can never solve a problem generated from a negative thought,but it can only compound it.”
“I walk slowly, but I never walk backward”
“I do the very best I know how, the very best I can, and I mean to keep on doing so until the end”
“Hope is the thing with feathers, that perches in the soul, and sings the tune without words, and never stops at all.”
“I laugh, I love, I hope, I try, I hurt, I need, I fear, I cry. And I know you do the same things too, So we're really not that different, me and you.”
“A new day greets is with a smile and warmth from the sun, despite knowing what's coming next we live our lives to the fullest each and everyday not letting pain stop us. Just like the sun there for you everyday so will all your loved ones and companions.”
“When something must be done, someone has to do it”
“Don't let the past speak of falter that shroud the future, for as the effervescence of the future can speak for itself.”
“On the seventh day, God rested. But not Marcus. He goes to the gym.”
“Those who are not looking for happiness are the most likely to find it, because those who are searching forget that the surest way to be happy is to seek happiness for others.”
“Nonviolence means avoiding not only external physical violence but also internal violence of spirit. You not only refuse to shoot a man, but you refuse to hate him.”
“Peace is not merely a distant goal that we seek, but a means by which we arrive at that goal.”
“Forgiveness is not an occasional act: it is an attitude.”
“Never forget that everything Hitler did in Germany was legal.”
“Cowardice asks the question, 'Is it safe?' Expediency asks the question, 'Is it politic?' But conscience asks the question, 'Is it right?' And there comes a time when one must take a position that is neither safe, nor politic, nor popular but because conscience tells one it is right.”
“Admitir, Creer, Conformar, Defender™”
“It is my hope that as the Negro plunges deeper into the quest for freedom and justice he will plunge even deeper into the philosophy of non-violence. The Negro all over the South must come to the point that he can say to his white brother: ''We will match your capacity to inflict suffering with our capacity to endure suffering. We will meet your physical force with soul force. We will not hate you, but we will not obey your evil laws. We will soon wear you down by pure capacity to suffer.''”
“Along my spiritual, creative, mental and physical journeys - I found only one thing makes all the difference in my experiences and situations: gratitude.”
“Imagination is the working capital of the mind.”
“Your positive thoughts really manifest itself towards the ending of your life's venture.”
“To do what I can is normal. To go beyond my capacities is a challenge. Where my capacities ends, there begins my faith. A strong faith sees the invisible, believes the incredible and receives the impossible.”
“Rebelution is the imperfection that makes us completely perfect.”
“loving someone is not difficult, but what's difficult is, if someone you loved never loves you back like you did.”
“We are all God. So, when one feels abandoned by God or Source it's because they are searching or an outside energy instead of looking inward.”
“I want my tombstone to read: I won some and lost some...and both taught me a lot.”
“If you forgive you are not human, you are after GOD.”
““The child in us already knew the journey ahead, it came here with a purpose, a passion and to play… don’t let the adult in us get in the way”…
Remember when you believed anything was possible, it still is…”
“Positive words,powered with strong emotion helps to trigger your sub-conscious being.”
“What petty lives we’re living where our actions are the reflections of the domination of hate & anger over our minds & serenity, but it could never over take our inner beliefs, thoughts & feelings if our hearts were once invaded by love...”
“We fall so we could rise again, we make mistakes so we could be forgiven, we keep pushing so we could discover our limits and we try so we could adapt...
But most importantly; we rise, forgive, discover & adapt to learn to never look back.”
“For to be free is not merely to cast off one's chains, but to live in a way that respects and enhances the freedom of others.”
“The only cure for all social ills in our world today is the discovery and creation of more and more ordinary everyday heroes.”
“Courage is so rare nowadays, that one gets cornered for having courage of conviction and living by one’s ideals. However it is great to be cornered, since the corner with courage is never too crowded.”
“Sometimes I feel that the only concept of fairness in our society is creams like fair & lovely or fair & handsome.”
“Everyone is waiting for someone to change the world and no one seems to be doing much. Now what if everyone started thinking that someone who can change the world is me? This simple thinking will make all the difference to change our world.”
“Modern Education may make one intelligent but not wise. Wisdom comes from character, social consciousness, self awareness, human values, conscience that helps us know what is right and wrong and independent will that helps us to choose right over wrong.”
“Our mind cannot be without fear and our head cannot be held high when we become slaves to materialistic values , always wondering why my car is not bigger and better than my neighbors car and in that process forget our human values like dignity, humility , integrity and humanity.”
“Never allow poverty to become your master,but rather subdue it to become your perpetual servant.”
“Too many of us are not living our dreams because we are living our fears.”
“Never deny the value of your existence.”
“Do not spoil what you have by desiring what you have not; remember that what you now have was once among the things you only hoped for.”
“Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things that you didn't do than by the ones you did do. So throw off the bowlines. Sail away from the safe harbor. Catch the trade winds in your sails. Explore. Dream. Discover.”
“What we fill up in our minds is what we get to drive on.”
“I can't survive without work says the valiant mind.”
“When you are genuinely happy for the happy,then genuine happiness comes your way.”
“Abolish contentment, Befriend fear and embrace anxiety, these are a few necessary steps towards a positive change.”
“Faith is a knowledge within the heart, beyond the reach of proof.”
“Love lives after death dies.”
“Humans are least themselves when they are sincere, give them a mask and they will tell the truth.”
“Challenge your limits, Inspire your own self, Become a value addition, Create a sense of urgency!”
“If you say sky is the limit, your dreams ain't big enough.”
“Sometimes the only thing holding you back is your sanity.”
“No one can teach you anything better than your experience.”
“From the time you are finished reading this sentence, you can smile to know that you used 20 seconds wisely on reading this. There's 24 hours in a day and each individual has the chance to do something productive or waste it. If someone cannot tell you something they did benificial for themselves or someone, i recommend you forward this to them immediately.”
“Success persuades away determination of endeavor; success is a terrible teacher. Stay steadfast in your mission family, accepting that for every good day, a bad day could follow.”
“Fate allow men to accomplish great things in different segment of life, by simply giving them different strong desires.”
“Be brave and absolutely fearless in the pursuit of your dreams; good fortune will be your reward. Due diligence, believe and acquire that dream; for if you have dreamt it, haven’t you already been there once? Believe family, it can happen to you.”
“Rejoice not yet for winning today's temptations,for tomorrow,a greater one may be coming your way.”
“Think about one thing above everything and you can live a healthy and happy life on earth”
“I HAVE AWAKEN! Are you? Are you just treating your life as if you're asleep? F*CK, WAKE. UP. and smell the beautiful fragrance called LIFE!”
“When someone gives you a positive remark on yourself, it's only best to prove them right.”
“I don't shy away from life's challenges, I embrace them. Because one day they will make me the man I wish to become.”
“Set high expectations, opting for the environment that best facilitates victory; the friends and surroundings you choose are crucial to obtaining grandeur, so be prudent in your selection.”
““Earn the right to become your own role model””
“Selfless is more.”
“There is so much power and honour is surrender. Learn to let go of the illusion of control. you can push all you want, when it's not meant to be it won't be.”
“For every dark night I pray for a brighter day. Regrettably, life sometimes has the darkest of days followed by even darker nights. Remember when all seems bleak and lost to the blackness, all hope is not lost. The power to light a new day always resides in the human soul.”
“Simplicity Rules - embrace it.”
“When you realize your potential and combine it with hard work- all the other noise just cancels out.”
“Money can not purchase the place true love and friendship can acquire.”
“Instead of treating [the genocide] like [Hurricane] Katrina, let's think more about the political action.”
“““Everything in life is a gamble. If you don't take risks, you will have never known if it was a win or a loss.”””
“The secret of art is love.”
“Life's a photograph. Take it!”
“I need respect more than I fear death; without respect, I’m dead already.”
“All that I am, can be, and will be, I owe to wisdom; without prudent decision making, I am dust.”
“To share sorrow with a friend or loved one makes sorrow irrelevant and the meaning of life and love the relevant happening.”
“According to all known laws of aviation, there is no way that a bee should be able to fly. It's wings are too small to get its fat little body off the ground. The bee, of course, flies anyway. Because bees don't care what humans think is impossible”
“Music is the medicine of the mind”
“LIMITING GREED AND LUST LEADS TO A FULFILLING LIFE”
“You can light a room with love ♥”
“Ive found the true meaning of love, when I laid my heart in your hands”
“A cloud of eiderdown 
Draws around me 
Softening a sound. 
Sleepy time, and I lie, 
With my love by my side,”
“Life is not suppose to be this hard. You're doing it wrong if it is.”
“And barefoot or first thing in the morning, I feel beautiful. Because I feel like me. I didn't always feel that way, but I feel that way now. When somebody just loves you, and when you make somebody happy, when your presence seems to make them happy, you suddenly feel like the most beautiful person in the world.”
“"Ask a surgeon to find courage IN YOU with a scalpel. How long will he look until he gives up? Yet, I can see if you have any... just by looking into your eyes"!”
“"Your personality was made from two other personalities (mother/father), so in one sense you were born with a split-personality. Sorry! Your mission is to develop your own single-minded personality before you die".”
“An alarm clock is a device to wake a man up who has no plans or intentions for the future that could make him wake up himself.”
“Hatred is mankinds greatest weapon. It is used for everything. War is based on hatred and greed. We need to stop this endless cycle of hatred and greed.”
“Don’t think God is blind he can’t see us. He is just wearing glasses called TIME through which he is constantly looking at us each and every moment.”
“MOTHER NATURE GAVE YOU A BELLY BUTTON ON YOUR BIRTHDAY. A Belly Button is an odd gift indeed but it was given to you, on your very first birthday, so that you would never forget just how remarkable you are. You have already survived death once and you even have the scar to prove it”
“If you want to know how a person is, just put some kind of hard choice in front of him.”
“We are always ready to make friends with those who look more stupid than us and sometimes we love them just for being so.”
“Your mind is your battleship through the storm of life's hardship where you can either lose control or find peace in the heart of worship that leads you toward the lighthouse which is Jesus Christ.”
“The reason for our disappintments is that: we do not allow things to take their designated course but we keep projecting our expectations and setting ourselves up for the worst. That we do not bend with the direction of the wind but we try to change its course.”
“Always keep good thoughts in mind and judge everyone and everything by them and definitely each and every time you will be successful.”
“An enemy is like boiling water in a pot on the stove whose button may sometimes be in your hands.”
“Life is just a book of chapters written by God which you have to read very carefully before it finishes.”
“Stop! You can't be a Scholar of God by tending to one fish in the jar.”
“A dog's formula for happiness: "Feed me. Love me. Include me. Let me smell disgusting things." Imagine how grand our relationships would be if we were content with having those first three.”
“Inspiring others is good for your soul and for those who receive it deep down in their heart.”
“Love is friendship set on fire”
“Every single second of our life,we are creating our past,present and future...”
“If you do nothing other than discovering some of your blessings and putting them to good use, then it’s a good day (and life).”
“If you're disagreeing with a friend with whom you normally agree, and the topic relates to your issue, the odds are in favor of your friend being right.”
“You can't have a front without a back, nor a back without a front. In other words, there's always another side.”
“Whenever we are engaged in our own bad behavior, we see the easy as insurmountable and the difficult as irrelevant.”
“My four rules for business: Did I do the best job I could do? Did I have fun? Did I sustain my reputation? (I'm not being paid to improve it.) And, did they pay?”
“free yourself”
“Commit to accepting the obvious.”
“The road to success is never paved with excuses.”
“Borrowing money from a bank is sometimes like borrowing money from your children.”
“Weightlifting is a sport. Your only trophy, is you.”
“Love is like dew that falls on both nettles and lilies”
“You have a home forever in my heart rent free; I love you.”
“I was in Europe and it was at this stage that I fell in love with Americans in uniform. And I continue to have that love affair.”
“Money means nothing to me, but because it’s a scale of success, title and respect in our society, I know I have to defeat the competition and claim mine. Love on the other hand means everything to me; I feel compelled to show and share with all, that some things can not be bought or bartered with money or worldly possessions. Living The Dream.”
“Love one another and you will be happy. It's as simple and as difficult as that.”
“The stars in the sky are like the thoughts in your head, somtimes you need to leave the city to see them all”
“No regrets, no laments; if its good be grateful, if its not benefit from the experience and keep on forward.”
“...Losinqq a friendd meanzz NOTHING, but losinqq a BEST friendd meanzz EVERYTHING...!!!(:♥”
“EXCUSES ARE JUST WAYS OF ADMITTING DEFEAT BY ONESELF, WITHOUT ACTUALLY SAYING IT”
“DO NOT LET THE POSSIBILITY OF TOMMORROW STOP YOU FROM LIVING TODAY.”
“Life’s a journey for everybody but somebody has stolen my map.”
“Those who can see tomorrow might offend people stuck looking at today.”
“Victory will crown the brave.”
“We are family. We are one. We are Living The Dream.”
“All great quotes did not come from all great men.”
“A wise man once said ... nothing.”
“Hard working is always a tremendous way to genuinely reach your dream.”
“Think Link is a destination for you to get your daily treat of motivation. Think Link is a product of a company of motivational speakers, Think Inc. Founded by Mr. Promod Batra, the company offers a range of self-help books and conducts seminars for companies across the globe.
They specialize in sowing the seeds of self esteem through their motivational seminars.
more info visit this link
http://thinklink.in”
“Our generation did not see the time of SLAVERY, so why trying to excite bitterness in the hearts of innocent African Children? - - - (Mordecai Uka Dike)”
“Your real you is the secret thoughts you harbour within your self when you are alone.”
“Our life is like a movie directed by God which has no beginning and ending, just interval in which we have to play our whole role.”
“We repeat the good quote, but we live the great ones.”
“Always do your job without caring what others will think about it.”
“Sometimes, the only thing something needs is time. To grow, to sit, to evolve on it's own...”
“Don’t teach your children how to walk on the path of life, but teach them what the path is made up of?”
“If you are so afraid of losing something or being rejected, you already give up before trying,only to safe yourself from dissapointment you might wanna keep in mind that you are the one disappointing yourself”
“If you keep yourself in a state of curiosity instead of having expectations, you’re moving into an area where everything is open and magic can take place.”
“The minds has the capacity to just filter away all the information that does’nt fit the believes it is already holding and thus making you blind for what’s very obviously in front of you.”
“How tempting to spent all the time in the land of illusion and let reality take a rest in peace”
“As long as you can imagine it, it's realistic.”
“Keep The Good Hope Alive! And You'll Always See Yourself Alive In The Hope!:)”
“The concept of what you are cannot be defined by the mind, because it is infinite...”
“Without money we are merely limited to imagination,which can be great if you use it in the right way.”
“It doesn't matter wich path you choose to walk upon; when openness is part of you, everything in your life shall appear to be transparant.”
“The Marching Towards The End!! Starts At The Beginning!!”
“Strange how the mind can hold on to an idea as a truth, while in fact it's just a roadblock, keeping you from moving forward.”
“When you start to see light at the end of the tunnel, make sure you're not digging another one.”
“Most of us think we know ourselves pretty well. Our hopes, dreams, desires.. We cling tightly to this story we tell ourselves, not realizing that we need to let go of just that. Because if we cling to something so tight, how can we move forward?”
“Loneliness is worse but the worst kind of loneliness is when you are in a crowd of people.”
“A child learns lessons in life more from his unhappy parents than his happy ones.”
“Amongst the darkness the light will shine”
“The answer to any life-question you cannot find by thinking about it. It needs to reveil Itself.
If you think about it, the answer is coming from the mind and the mind is not designed for that. The answer needs to come from within; the pure self.
Just ask for answers or inspiration, and trust it will come.”
“Trust is earned, respect is given, and loyalty is demonstrated. Betrayal of any one of those is to lose all three”
“Lifes biggest fear, is fear itself.
Fear makes you lose your sense of trust.
Fear (not hate) is the opposite of love
When you lose your sense of love
you lose your sense of life.”
“You become free, the moment you just let yourself be”
“Wandering around in darkness, you might come to wonder what beautifull stars of new wisdom you might discover.”
“people think that they think, but they don't, they follow...”
“Never See your back.. or you will Fall...”
“You are in integrity when the life you are living on the outside matches who you are on the inside.”
“In life, we spend most of our time searching for what we already have.”
“When you feel insignificant, just remember that the grandest of deserts always started with a single pebble of sand.”
“Inspirational stories abound, and they come from every country,
from every walk of life. You are who you decide to be, so go out and make it happen.”
“Follow your bliss”
“In sorrow I pray, and then rise up through the heartache.”
“Life is not about where you come from but it is about where you are going.”
“To be a coward is not being able to challenge your opponent in a fight only,but to keep quiet in the face of impunity & to think lowly of yourself than your true worth,is to be a coward.”
“While trying to inspire, don't forget to be inspired.”
“While trying to inspire, don't forget to be inspired.”
“While trying to inspire, don't forget to be inspired.”
“The fact that I inspire you - inspires me.”
“Men used to want to be both rich and great, now most only want to be rich and men that only pursue wealth will always eventually be defeated by men that are not afraid to also be great.”
“For all sad words of tongue and pen, The saddest are these, 'It might have been'.”
“Success doesn’t come through what has been done, but what remains to be done.”
“Learn to love, now.”
“You know war has already decided to invite us before we think of giving it our invitation card.”
“When moving forward, you don't have to always get it right, you just have to get it going.”
“Those who end their day by watching television rarely start it by setting up an alarm clock.”
“The dictators are the most precious customers for democracy. ”
“Measure your advancement, not so much by $$$'s but by Deeds ..”
“You cannot teach a man anything; you can only help him discover it in himself.”
“"Perseverance will always take you to places where those who quit will never see." ~Dina Harding”
“"Love is the vehicle and forgiveness is the key." ~Dina Harding”
“Life is a gift. Be present.”
““The world is a wonderful work of tapestry on display and each one of us is an instrumental interwoven thread on the other side of it.” ~Dina Harding”
“If you don’t belong to any religion, then you must be the suspect.”
“I truly try to never lie”
“The problem with standing in line, if those in front of you fall, so do you”
“Today is beautiful, tomorrow can be beautiful, who cares about yesterday.”
“I have been asked if I have ever seen God! No, but I have seen his hand in my life!”
“Equilibrium does not amount to standing at the middle of a see-saw.As long as you feel balanced inside,neither one of the ends will touch the floor.”
“The jump is so frightening between where I am and where I want to be...because of all I may become I will close my eyes and leap!”
“No creature matters to 'the mind', they matter to 'the heart' of us... as human.”
“People who said they are happily depressed,
they are just being positive in their own way.”
“Everyone fails at some point, no one will ever love, trust, or commit 100%. It's impossible. They're human, so are you. Expect failure and never be surprised or caught off guard, and when they do right by you, be pleasantly surprised. Waste of time looking for a perfect human being. It doesn't exist.”
“Don't frame up all your emotions. Like a house without any windows it becomes depression, live to walk in an empty room, with the world at your door step. Take the first step not the last.”
“The only way to find out of you trust somebody is to trust them.”
“Dream also means,"This thing has always been impossible since life began because,nobody has dared imagined it to become possible.”
“Though many have tried
Many have failed
But where they have not
I will prevail”
“Assemble your army wisely; their fight, sacrifice and loyalty towards your mission will ultimately determine victory or defeat.”
“The key to success is to prepare yourself first before doing anything else.”
“I have yet to meet two types of people; unknown and those who are known to only unknown.”
“Sometimes not only do you have to fall...but you have to hit ROCK BOTTOM, before you find out who you are...and who you want to become...”
“If you think you're smart then you have no more reason to try to be it.”
“Men are like wine - some turn to vinegar, but the best improve with age.”
“Great dreamers are the beginning of the end.”
“A wise man once told me: an overnight success takes 10 years. I might not have 10 Years; I may have to settle for a naptime success.”
“Death does not scare me, for I have witnessed and felt great pain. Not Living The Dream scares me, for a life not sharing and caring, is a life wasted in vain.”
“I amiably pawn my mind, body and soul to my vocation; in return I gain an advantage position in heart, love and lasting legacy along side our beautiful Angels.”
“Challenge your secure zone; your reward will be success.”
“Does a blind man wish to see a beautiful sky of blue? Or rather, imagine a different color sky for each day of the week?”
“Architecture is a survival element for humanity. The practice of
Architecture is what gives me a home... a home far from home.”
“A twisted dream of chance and fate, is to have you back my loving mate. My arms out wide, it’s never too late. A wish come true, I just can’t wait.”
“Ink is the voice of the mind”
“Integrity is so unusual these days; we should all order up a slice.”
“It's not that we think the person can do no wrong; it's that we know the person can do a lot of right.”
“Opportunity knocks, fear slowly sets in, with change not being your forte. Dread not the altered foyer within, for GOD has granted you this New Day.”
“Without being wrong, you cannot learn what is right...!”
“My throat chokes up, tears fall from my eyes, and my heart cries love tonight. Our children are fighting, for their lives almighty, my GOD please make them alright.”
“Woe to the man whose heart has not learned while young to hope, to love - and to put its trust in life.”
“If you think you're smart then you have no more reason to try to be it.”
“If you push anyone to fall, you will be pushed before you fall.”
“You need not do anything.
Remain sitting at your table
and listen.
You need not even listen,
just wait.
...You need not even wait,
just learn to be quiet,
still and solitary.
And the world will freely
offer itself to you unmasked.
It has no choice,
it will roll in ecstasy at your feet.”
“All love shifts and changes. I don't know if you can be wholeheartedly in love all the time.”
“When nothing seems to work, let it be nothing.”
“when you see a red flag, either show the white one and surrender or dodge down and disappear before you become hurt, if you already hurt, it only means you showed the white flag regardless of the outcome.”
“When I'm upset, mad or angry, I clean my home, it's almost like cleaning anger off my body, beginning with bathrooms so I can flush it all out, and ending in my bedroom because by that time, like my mind, it's then free of unnecessary clutter.”
“Be exceptional and tenacious in your life’s choices, you shall then discover bliss and prominence.”
“Let the sky rest in the sea's embrace
Forget for a moment what will be
As river flows in amazing grace
Tomorrow is now setting you free.”
“Não retenhamos coisa alguma dAquele que deu Sua preciosa vida por nós. ... Consagremos todos a Deus a propriedade que Ele nos confiou. Acima de tudo, demo-nos nós mesmos a Ele como oferta voluntária. — The Signs of the Times, 7 de Janeiro de 1889. {AV 2.6}”
“•Ignite your heart¨¨¨*•with then felt.•♥•.¸¸awake your senses .•then left•♥•.¸¸.•¨close your eyes¨*••¨open your soul¨¨*•.inspire dream and love!”
“¨New Sky behind New sight ¨*•rejoicing behind the night shimmering Venus trembling Mars•¨ God's palm so soft holding the stars... make a wish hold on tight..•¨.when you believe the life can be unbearably light”
“You savored the luxury of Another day …mingled in a surreal crowd of shineYou walked the dogma in yet another way…willingly surrendered to the bottom line...To tease the victory with its other half…still happy from yesterday’ confident stumble To challenge reluctance in the pride of laugh…still dazzled and sore of being too humble”
“Go on and sleep over the parade of fame…sunk in the cushion of irrelevant streamsCover your reach with a pictureless frame…give it a real life with your awakened dreams ”
“...Light and meek float of the days,
Reflects the beauty of summery shift,
...Passage of sunny & vibrant rays,
Swirling its joy in wanderous drift.
Translucent poise and vibrant view,
...Alley of winds clearing the sight,
Merging of senses, mystic and new,
..Blending of visions, warm and bright.”
“You have boundless time to lay your peace of mind upon as you walk hand in hand with verity along the shores of emerald skies of truth fostering your enlightened soul with enrapture, tenderness and repose...time is never wasted under guardianship of rightfulness …”
“*Dance your heart out... dance¨over rugged machines*over cynical over mud¨dance when the tears cannot cry¨*& crying becomes only out of joy¨*when joy celebrates...all your pain¨*& thanks eternity for enriching your soul*¨¨& the only stone you carry on is the one you rock 'n roll!”
“Money doesn’t grow on trees but it speaks beautifully without grammar.”
“Deep in your soul, on the edge of your heart A whole magical world wants to come alive You know there is nothing that keeps it apart...From you, from your desire to make it live!Open your eyes and let the lights through, Emerge from your dreams into the blue, Let all your feelings propel the voice:"All you ever wanted is your only choice"!”
“Never be so busy at being so good to fail to leave the heritage of integrity & good values for the generations to come. The good you do today has to survive the test of tomorrows to come! This is the responsibility of all, whether or not you want your children to have a bright future and a society that protects and fosters the values on which the happiness and prosperity of all depends!”
“Look as you walk and pass by Pay attention to your heart's beats A skip of emotion that's easy to get by The eternity of moment that never cheats.”
“Life would have been a very boring place without dreams.”
“Even when you accept unacceptable,
When you search for irreplaceable,
All the roads lead to the same ...
To the core of your inner flame!”
“Let the feel and touch of yesterday's gloom ... sound laud and clear...as roses bloom and thorns are worn out in the future remnants and jade...the voice and murmur ...calm and bled...rests on your finger crossed across the gate...that has no key and has no door...yet you are its savor and luminescent code!”
“There are things which couldn't be expressed by the words,
when you've mastered certain lesson for more than 30 years.”
“A woman has either something to put on or nothing to take off.”
“Faith in others is as important as faith in oneself. In the same manner, faith in oneself is as important as faith in others.”
“Begin now what you desire later.”
“I love you the more in that I believe you had liked me for my own sake and for nothing else.”
“Though we may reach the foremost heights of intellectual achievement, we will forever remain bound by the shackles of human nature and instinct.”
“If a tower is built too thick and high, the weight of it will crush the very foundation beneath it and ALL will crumble to dust.”
“Money is our private plane but only few know how to pilot it.”
“In order to advance in life, you have to accept what you are doing, learn from it and grow.”
“You know, the things that matter in life are really hard to get.”
“Plant the seeds of your dreams now, so that you may harvest them later.”
“If you are looking for happiness, then you know nothing about it at all.”
“Acceptance supersedes expectance!”
“We must remember for everything we do in life, there is always someone to acknowledge for it.”
“There is no secret ingredient. It's just you”
“MORE CHURCHES, MORE CRIME IN AFRICA.”
“Where there is love there is pain”
“Always try your best to give encouragement, support and great advice to people around you. If they appreciate it - move on, if they debunk it - still keep moving on. That's the best you can do. GOD KNOWS BEST.”
“Via unity and love, all things are possible.”
“Out beyond ideas of wrongdoing and rightdoing, there is a field. I will meet you there.”
“Everyone is a dreamer. It never means every dream that can come true.
I always admire for the one who has dreams. He follows it and he can make it real.”
“For the beggar, everything is always out of fashion.”
“Time --- Or it is just sneaking away from our fingers slit.......”
“No man really knows how to live if he did, he would never die.”
“It hurts to love someone and not to be loved in return. But the most regret is to love someone and never have the title to let the one to know how deep my love is to.......”
“I will always choose a lazy person to do a difficult job because he will find an easy way to do it”
“There comes a time when you have to stand up and shout:
This is me damn it! I look the way I look, think the way I think, feel the way I feel, love the way I love! I am a whole complex package. Take me... or leave me. Accept me - or walk away! Do not try to make me feel like less of a person, just because I don't fit your idea of who I should be and don't try to change me to fit your mold. If I need to change, I alone will make that decision.
When you are strong enough to love yourself 100%, good and bad - you will be amazed at the opportunities that life presents you.”
“Everything other than love is a distraction.”
“Some small ideas grew to become larger than life.”
“Having difficulties in life is nothing but only a matter of choice.”
“We love life, not because we are used to living but because we are used to loving.”
““With one kind gesture you can change a life. One person at a time you can change the world. One day at a time we can change everything.””
“Sometimes it's the same moments that take your breath away that breathe purpose and love back into your life.”
“I want to live my life in such a way that when I get out of bed in the morning, the devil says, "aw shit, he's up!”
“A beautiful thing happens when we start paying attention to each other. It is by participating more in your relationship that you breathe life into it.”
“It is sad to see people squandering money and know you can’t help them.”
“Some people go about doing good other people just go about.”
“Play every game as if it were going to be the game breaker.”
“Don't give up! It's not over. The universe is balanced. Every set-back bears with it the seeds of a come-back.”
“Worry is a ladder that never goes up to a hill.”
“When you’re existing, life happens to you, and you manage; when you’re living, you happen to life and you lead.”
“Become the leader of your life. Lead yourself to where you want to be. Breathe life back into your ambitions, your desires, your goals, your relationships.”
“Incredible change happens in your life when you decide to take control of what you do have power over instead of craving control over what you don't.”
“You are beautiful. Your beauty, just like your capacity for life, happiness, and success, is immeasurable.”
“We all make mistakes, have struggles, and even regret things in our past. But you are not your mistakes, you are not your struggles, and you are here NOW with the power to shape your day and your future.”
“Failure remains failure if we don’t learn something from it.”
“A life of happiness, peace, and love is all within our grasp.”
“The beautiful journey of today can only begin when we learn to let go of yesterday.”
“At every given moment we are absolutely perfect for what is required for our journey.”
“Live in such a way that if the devil happened to come to your way, he would change his direction.”
“How would your life be different if…You approached all relationships with authenticity and honesty? Let today be the day…You dedicate yourself to building relationships on the solid foundation of truth and authenticity.”
“Education begins within the threshold of one’s own house.”
“It does not matter what u think,only thing that matters is what you believe.Your belief is more important than ur thoughts.”
“I am always hard at work on the mind and smart at work on the job.”
“The beauty of women is the root of all evil, it makes men lose their minds”
“If you are not Dressed for the day until, you were a smile”
“Man will continually have problems in life,until we learn to think aright.”
“Never, ever deny the value of your destiny.”
“Success of Human beings is Collective Effort”
“My greatest fear is not death, but having failed to make the most of my life.”
“You don't own it if you owe it!”
“Motivation is not coming from the Motivators who gave you motivation, however Motivators only trigger the motivation came out from yourself.”
“some beautiful memories from the past.. some moments that couldn't last.. why do you stop and wait, there is nobody there.. only you, yourself and your own shadow to cast.. tricks of the moon, don't get carried away.. every soul is destined to be alone, you're just on your way..”
“In life we don't really have to rush for things. Some things needs time. Relax, analyse it before taking action. Ensure that you are ready to face each of its every challenges and always stay strong.”
“In the matters of hope, it helps to know how to make a mountain of a mole-hill.”
“The biggest and more important to train is the heart!! not the real muscle but the real you!! muscles will turn into dust memories will turn into legends”
“We are not perfect, neither absolute Good nor Evil. We do lie somewhere in-between and our effort should be to improve the score.”
“Life's irony;Without problems in life,the art of positive thinking becomes vanity.”
“They say we want what we can't have, plenty times not necessarily so. A chance must be taken in order to know it's worth, only then we'll find the way to what we want.”
“Don't promise when you're happy, Don't reply when you're angry, and don't decide when you're sad”
“Nothing is as is, but everything was.”
“O Senhor chama homens que estejam dispostos a se porem no jugo com Cristo e com seus irmãos; homens que estejam dispostos a se esforçarem para ser inteiramente aquilo que devem ser a fim de levar avante a obra de Deus de maneira inteligente; homens que olhem para Jesus, atendendo ao convite: “Vinde a Mim, ... e Eu vos aliviarei. Tomai sobre vós o Meu jugo, e aprendei de Mim, porque sou manso e humilde de coração; e achareis descanso para as vossas almas.” {MS 47.1}”
“Intuition is the language of the soul.
When we listen to our intuition we are fed information from our higher self.
Its communication is most clear when our mind is quiet.
This information is divine and never false.
It will lead you to your true purpose and your higher calling, as well as true fulfillment and peace of mind.
All you need to do to allow your intuition to come through is quiet your mind, and act on and follow what you are receiving.”
“O sal é apreciado por suas propriedades preservativas; e quando Deus compara Seus filhos ao sal, quer ensinar-lhes que Seu desígnio em torná-los objeto de Sua graça, é que se tornem instrumentos na salvação de outros. {MDC 35.2}”
“Don't throw yourself at someone because of who you think they are, throw yourself at someone because you know you're both in it for the memories.”
“Life's irony;Most times we desire wrongly,rather than desire for wisdom,we opt for wealth,for wisdom will bring wealth & even if the wealth goes temporarily,the wisdom in you will bring more.”
“Allow others to be inspired by who you are.”
“If you can't Beat them, Join them,
and if you can't Beat them or Join them, then Leave them.”
“True freedom comes when we decide TO BE with the people we ought to take care and protect.”
“The world is never in short supply of resources,but only of imagination to tap the resources.”
“"You must have the courage to look out of the window, the path to success will appear itself.”
“"You must have the courage to look out of the window, the path to success will appear itself.”
“Winners defeat their fears by stepping into the abyss. Once you start, do not quit; a quitter never wins.”
“Discover the art of exquisite living through giving.”
“Failure is a result not yet established.”
“block the pain from your mind and you will win the battle”
“I believe in the sun when it's not shining, I believe in love even when I feel it not, I believe in God even when he is silent.”
“mencegah lebih baik dari menyesali”
“I am lost in love. I have lost in love. But both have only strengthened my quest for love, and the need to be in love.”
“A home without a mother is a desert.”
“A person learns as long as he lives and still dies a fool.”
“A person shows himself through how he acts with others.”
“A great writer always provides quality in which you can learn from.”
“Don’t give me advice. I would rather take money than advice.”
“It don't hurt, why fear it.”
“When a person is not as he used to be, he does not behave as he used to behave.”
“I infinitely sacrifice myself to family; my gift to you is forever love.”
“One who is not moved by words is rarely moved by the stick.”
“If you ever see a glass half empty - just pour the content out into a smaller glass until full! :)
You either picked a wrong glass or overestimated the content! Make each drop count!”
“Don’t trust a swearing man and a weeping woman.”
“There are times in my life when I have been medicine for some while poison for others. I used to think I was a victim of my story until I realized the truth that I am the creator of my story. I choose what type of person I will be and what type of impact I will leave on others. I will never choose the destructive path of self and outward victimization again.”
“You know... we all have stories. We all have unique experiences that make each and everyone of us different from everyone else...and sometimes when we listen to other people's stories, it has a way of making our stories richer and more valuable...”
“You know... we all have stories. We all have unique experiences that make each and everyone of us different from everyone else...and sometimes when we listen to other people's stories, it has a way of making our stories richer and more valuable...”
“It is better one time to see things than one hundred times to hear about them.”
“Dreams create my path. Fear fuels my drive. Love sustains my direction.”
“The man who is looking for a wife will not speak contemptuously of women.”
“In temple, in the pubs and in coffins all men are equal.”
“Even the clock shows the time without knowing anything.”
“Sometimes the only one who believes in you is you, and sometimes that's all you need. ”
“We shall meet defeat many times, but must never be defeated.”
“Any good and inspiring story that happens to us, doesn't belong to us. We don't own its copyright. The right belongs to the people who need to hear it and be moved...Now, tell us yours...”
“God's objective for our life is more important than our perspective of our life.”
“When you are faced with the impossible, remember that with God all things are possible. Only God can offer you the impossible possibility!”
“Your limits are only defined by your willingness to explore them.”
“Comfort lacks motivational traits, it breeds complacency; hardship is the greatest motivating factor in life.”
“People are like pepper, you don’t know them until you have ground them.”
“life is preciously short, excuses are only internal obstacles preventing you from touching your dreams...”
“Today simply means,this is the day the dream i dreamed yesterday must come to pass.”
“Bear in mind that you are better than what you are; even an empty pistol can scare hundred people.”
“Only as high as I reach can I grow, only as far as I seek can I go, only as deep as I look can I see, only as much as I dream can I be.”
“Sing like no one's listening, love like you've never been hurt, dance like nobody's watching, and live like its heaven on earth.”
“Existence is the greatest opportunity one can have; so why settle for a mediocre state of being?”
“State of mind determines destination.”
“If you have no money then you are not worth listening to.”
“Failure is necessary in life. If you cannot fail, you cannot succeed.”
“Anyone who wraps their family's entire life style around a single source of income is a professional gambler who should seek help”
“It only takes the thought of those less able to fuel that extra mile.”
“When God gives you, he doesn’t ask whose son you are.”
“Loving someone that does not love you is like shaking the tree that bears no fruit.”
“Money has wings but you have to cut your wings to prevent it from flying.”
“The man who steals in order to give to God will only get advice from the devil.”
“Doing good to the devil is like planting a seed in the sea.”
“Everyone thinks that his own thoughts are best but finds no inspiration.”
“He who thinks to deceive God has already deceived himself.”
“Giving advice to the ignorant is like sowing the seeds in the desert.”
“He who knows not when he has enough, is poor.”
“Welcome the closing of an old door, for it is then that a new door shall open.”
“If you do good, you may forget it; but if you do ill, you will always remember it.”
“If you tell the secret to the Nile you should not be surprised if the desert knows it.”
“Be inspired by things in life that are beautiful and good.”
“My worst day at the hospital as a doctor is still better than my best day as the patient.”
“The more I think about it,the more I realize there is nothing more artistic than to love others”
“WE NEED TO BE STUPID SOMETIMES TO KNOW THE EXTENT OF OUR STUPIDITY AND IT'S LIMITATION...AND LEARN FROM IT.”
“Beware of those who don’t like bread and children.”
“Quién quiere algo nuevo tiene que desprenderse de lo viejo y dejar atrás los hábitos...”
“A person soon forgets about God as soon as he recovers from sickness.”
“‎"Got so much money think i'll buy myself some extra time."”
“Education is something that you know and get which is not in the book.”
“Teaching a learned person is like teaching an eagle to fly.”
“How strange! When people borrow money, they bow to you and when you collect it, you have to bow to them.”
“If you think you're mad as me, close your mouth and talk.”
“To have someone to love and be with ...is like living in heaven on earth.”
“If you're waiting for something to be perfect, you will be waiting a long time.”
“Darkness shows no wrong path to those who get what they want before dark.”
“Death respects nobody.”
“He has nothing, for whom nothing is enough.”
“In the course of life our thoughts become causes and actions which, in turn, shape our world. Let's say Yes to positive thinking, shall we?”
“He who leaves and then returns will have a good trip.”
“If you want to be somebody be yourself. If you want to be happy be. If you want to go somewhere or do something than do it. Don't let fear or limitations hold you back for some of the best things you do are out of a spontaneous reaction.”
“We regret, repent, and remorse only when we have lost exhaustively.”
“Does the clown ever cry ? Yes, he does. Alone, but.”
“A person who does not share what he is given will never share what he has in his barn.”
“balance is the key of life”
“If you don’t plant, you get nothing but weeds.”
“Your capacity to experience the fullness of life is directly proportionate to your capacity to experience the fullness of love.”
“The love of a mother is the veil of a softer light between the heart and the heavenly Father.”
“Garbage out, garbage in. Blessings out, blessings in.”
“If we don’t fight we remain equals, if we do fight then one of us wins.”
“Devotion to a principle greater than yourself; that is love.”
“Strength of your desire should over-weigh your fear of failure”
“The heart knows where to go but your brain knows how to get there.”
“I destroy my enemies when I make them my friends.”
“Strength does not come from the will to win; everybody has that, real strength comes from the will never to lose.”
“Love never works with two perfect persons.”
“Your actions reveal what you're thinking.”
“A person who takes warning from the mishaps of others will always be happy.”
“If you have no money in your pocket, then you should have fair words on your lips.”
“He who knows how to beg can always leave his money at home.”
“I admire, adore and love you, because you’re you.”
“Death does not come free of charge, for it costs us our life.”
“You might as well be nice to everyone, because in the end if something happens to someone your mean/rude to, you are going to feel like a complete asshole in the end.”
“You'll never find another like me because im the original.”
“If you do not want to work in the heat, you will have to starve in the cold.”
“You make me feel accidentally Wonderful, when you surround me with You.”
“Patience is the maturity to appreciate the natural pace of progress”
“keiklasan membawa ketenangan hati.”
“Hidup adalah takdir, sedang mati adalah ketentuan.”
“1 kebaikan akan di balas 10 x lipat.”
“Sebetulnya hidup ini sangat sederhana jika kita tidak merumitkannya dengan rencana yang tidak kita laksanakan.”
“"Knowledge starts from imagination, therefore, knowledge is someone's imagination. So why don't you start knowledge."- Nisar Maknojia”
“Live your life so well that it will inspire even you.”
“the more he identifies with the dominant images of need, the less he understands his own life and his own desires.”
“The spectacle’s estrangement from the acting subject is expressed by the fact that the individual’s gestures are no longer his own; they are the gestures of someone else who represents them to him.”
“The man who talks to his wife about his dog instead of singing a love song is a wise man.”
“A person who has not done any good in his life dies like a beast.”
“The millions of human beings who were shot, tortured, starved, treated like animals and made the object of a conspiracy of ridicule, can sleep in peace in their communal graves, for at least the struggle in which they died has enabled their descendants, isolated in their air-conditioned apartments, to believe, on the strength of their daily dose of television, that they are happy and free. The Communards went down, fighting to the last, so that you too could qualify for a Caribbean cruise.”
“The significance of something lies in its presence here and now. I don't care what it has been or what it will become. It is the experience of things that matters, the confrontation with things.”
“What we have and what is our strength, is our joy in life; our interest in life, in all it moral aspects. That is also the basis of our contemporary art. We do not even know the laws of aesthetics. That old idea of selection according tot the beauty-principle Beautiful – Ugly, like to ethical Noble – Sinful, is dead for us, for whom the beauty is also ugly and everything ugly is endowed with beauty.”
“The picture’s substance reflects the painter’s substance, showing how much he has felt of himself and his society, how much he spans and how deep his experience goes.”
“We gotta find a way off this goddamn cop-ridden planet.”
“It takes less effort to condemn than to think.”
“A person is not ready to know if he knows that you know it.”
“Love is the ability and willingness to allow those that you care for to be what they choose for themselves without any insistence that they satisfy you.”
“Orang yang mampu sama posisinya dengan orang yang tidak mampu, yang tidak berbuat apa-apa.
Harta yang sebenarnya adalah harta yang disedekahkan. Manfaatnya mengalir tak terhenti. Sedangkan harta yang tertinggal tak akan dibawa mati.”
“Jangan pernah menyerah sebelum berhasil. Dan jangan pernah puas dengan keberhasilan.”
“Nothing is as bad that it isn’t good for something.”
“Don’t let your knowledge tie you down to the ground and restrict you to a cage meant for the apes and the like. Break Free!”
“It is not good manners to show your learning before ladies.”
“While ‘Learning’ adds excitement and meaning, ‘Sharing’ what you know with your world adds ‘Purpose’ to what we all refer to as ‘Life’.”
“Giving what one does not possess is always a sign of charity.”
“Victory is for those who retreat, well, only to regroup and redouble their efforts to once again go for gold and achieve it too.”
“If you go too near your relatives, they will not respect you.”
“All things for all men, since all men have need of them, since all men worked to produce them in the measure of their strength, and since it is not possible to evaluate everyone's part in the production of the world's wealth... All is for all!”
“Pay what you owe and you will know what you are worth.”
“If thou shouldst never see my face again, pray for my soul. More things are wrought by prayer than this world dreams of.”
“The statement "I can not live without you" is simply ludicrous. One is able to live without that certain "special" person; however, I, who have love someone implicitly, have concluded that I am capable of sustaining my life without her, but realized that life is dimmer.”
“When was the last time your knowledge & understanding was stretched by God's Word? Like weight training for your muscles, your faith needs to be stretched & even torn at times to increase its strength and size. Hit the Word hard & begin to see the results.”
“Be Who You Are... SHINE Like A Star!”
“Divine by Design, I'm here to Shine! Beautiful in My Heart, only I can play My Part! Being Uniquely You, You will Sparkle too!”
“The mouth of a man is a terrible opening and his tongue is a terrible fire dragon.”
“My handicaps don't have to be seen as setbacks because they can used as tools to change the lives of many.”
“It is very difficult to tickle a hungry person.”
“Changing the world begins with evolving into your true self, Thru HIM.”
“When you have the word,you have the world,for the world is embedded inside the word”
“You can not put a monetary value on eternal adoration; love is priceless. Find true love, and you will discover a happiness greater than any earthly object; true love triumphs over all.”
“If you want to achieve greatness, you must believe in your dreams.”
“We have infinite dreams, infinite thoughts to accomplish and the first step will be the infinite hopes of today.”
“I want to see many things getting implemented but as the saying goes: life is the most unexpected roller coaster ever.”
“I embrace change if it has a vanguard feel to it.”
“I never knew the cost of my freedom, until a price was put on it.”
“Trust is something that originates from you. If you don't trust others you are not likely to be their trustworthy.”
“Ask yourself, who you want to help today, then put on your cape and do it.”
“Truth sustains itself regardless of popular demand or propaganda; the truth stands in the end.”
“Reach your 'Eternal Home' in style. Get that monkey off your back.”
“Man makes money, money doesn’t make man but it makes monkey of him.”
“The man and his woman is like the grave and its dead.”
“We die in the body, if we’re not alive in the heart.”
“Bill don't go, it's OK, we love you.”
“I don't intend to be the richest person in the cemetery, my wealth is the legacy I leave behind”
“W.O.G (Woman of God) She seeks after The Father with her whole heart... owns HIS Will and then plays the part.”
“I'm a DIVA: Daughter of The King, Inner Beauty, Virtuous Woman, Abundantly Living Her Life”
“Divine by Design, I'm here to Shine! Beautiful in My Heart, only I can play My Part! Being Uniquely You, You will Sparkle too!”
“Be Who You Are... SHINE Like A Star!”
“The opportunity knocks only once and does not wake up those that are asleep.”
“My handicaps don't have to be seen as setbacks because they can used as tools to change the lives of many.”
“The difference between A Closed Door & An Opportunity, is your Perception. (Â)”
“These Two Things We Can Rely: 1) God NEVER Changes 2) Life ALWAYS Will”
“Simplify your life, faith, home, expectations of self & others. Walk in God's Love & Light. Become more aware. Live NOW, it's the only sure thing. The next moment, a possible gift.”
“I'm small but Mighty... Born for Greatness!”
“You can learn good manners from those who don’t have any.”
“Before One can follow their heart, One should first learn to discipline & lead it.”
“To a man talking about God is like using a spoon to get water from the Nile.”
“FEAR is but an illusion, when drawing near to that which We are Called to Conquer!”
“W.O.G (Woman of God) She seeks after The Father with her whole heart... owns HIS Will and then plays the part.”
“M.O.G (Man of God) He seeks after The Father with his whole heart... owns God's Will and then plays the part.””
“When violence enters the house, law and justice flee through the window.”
“Even if you stand alone as one, stand alone with purpose.”
“Those who search for the defects of others don’t know their own defects.”
“And in the end, it's not the years in your life that count. It's the life in your years.”
“Words of love are wonderful when they are spoken with genuine purpose and from the heart.”
“If you are constantly looking in the rear view mirror, how will you ever see what is in front of you?”
“Life goes on. Why then must you continue to dwell on your moments of sorrow?”
“What you are looking for becomes your want. The "looking for" is conditioning of the brain based to the environment around you. Evolve your thinking and move on, one is just your mind set….one million is what is out there. – John Alexander Tristram”
“Happiness is simply the absence of pain. Curiously everybody realizes the need of happiness only in painful times”
“If you say you don't know weakness,
You will never be Strong!
Its the weakness that makes you strong''”
“Your eye is the only way you can judge things.”
“Only in the agony of parting do we look into the depths of love.”
“As I shut my eyes and close out this day, I’m so lucky and thankful to GOD so I pray, my life so blessed, undeserving in everyway, who would have ever thought? Not me, touché.”
“I don't know what should I do; I just know what I want to Do.”
“Failure isn't being able to succeed, failure is not trying to succeed.”
“GOD introduced to my heart, a beauty to ensue.
An angel held my hand, and walked me within view.
A unique feeling so unimaginable, could it really be true.
That the one I’ve been dreaming about, is none other than you.”
“You Measure man's true success,by the gleam you see in his wifes eyes.”
“Fear cons the mind and prevents progress, so as joy conveys the heart while promoting promise. The deciding factor is you plus the ability to apprehend vision.”
“In politics, it is better never to have loved at all than to have loved and lost.”
“Judge a person not by his ability to make money but by his ability to retain it.”
“No one has ever been offended by someone with good manners and courteous behaviour.”
“I love it when women come up to me and tell me I'm a positive influence on their lives and the lives of their young daughters. That's a great feeling.”
“May the forces of evil become lost and confused on the way to your house.”
“When you lost something close to you, you'll only find it back when you're not looking for it.”
“Give challenges to those who have the character to face them.”
“There is but one genuine love-potion - consideration.”
“Stand up, be bold, be strong. Take the whole responsibility on your own shoulders and know that you are the creator of your own destinity. All the strength and succor you want is within yourself. Therefore make your own future.”
“Miracle is a special gift, wrapped with prayer and delivered with faith.”
“Ek boy ne apni girlfrind ki ankho me anshu dekhe...... ladke ne usko gale lagaliya.... . ladki fir b roti rahi. . Ladke ne kaha tum kyo ro rahi ho.... Ladki ne kaha..... agr mere har ansu Se tum mujhe gale lagate ho . To me hamesa rona chahti hu. ♥♥
See More At :- www.facebook.com/loverspost1”
“With every sunrise comes fresh breathes”
“Excellent Saying :
” The Best Things In Life
Can Never Be Kept,
They Must Be Given Away.
A Smile , A Kiss , & Love “ ♥♥
See More At :- www.facebook.com/loverspost1”
“All the sad moments in your life, are the roads to the nice moments in your life. Respect those sad moments!”
“Very cute:
A boy & her gal were standing in front of a mirror
The gal asked, “What do u c?”
The boy smiled and said, “The rest of my life”…..♥♥
See More At :- www.facebook.com/loverspost1”
“Every little smile can touch somebody's heart.
No One is born happy.
But,all of us are born with the ability to create happiness.
Be happy always.
See More At :- www.facebook.com/loverspost1”
“The correct is always correct no matter how much time it takes to prove itself..”
“Help others whenever you can, the reward is priceless.”
“Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate. Our deepest fear is that we are powerful beyond measure. It is our light, not our darkness, that frightens us most. We ask ourselves, 'Who am I to be brilliant, gorgeous, talented, and famous?' Actually, who are you not to be?”
“Ideas are great, but they’re no substitute for the thrill of creation, of seeing that idea become real.”
“Do not create in anger what you lack in reason.”
“The greatest war is the war within, because you are the coalition and the opposition.”
“The freeway of life is something special, you know the destination, you just need to figure the highway you want to take you there.”
“If one could fly, then they could be on top of the world!, one question though, if you were the only one who could fly, would'nt you be left out of the rest of us?”
“No questions, boy, then you won’t get no lies.”
“You should remember, my dear, that beauty is in the lover’s eye.”
“The men who are really busiest have the most leisure for everything.”
“Though manners makes, yet apparel shapes.”
“It is the company which makes the occasion, not the surroundings.”
“I have no particular objection to death by its very nature; it pays all bills.”
“The world can be divided into two categories: those who eat to live and those who live to eat.”
“Accountability is the measure of a leaders height.”
“Too much familiarity breeds contempt.”
“The first duty of a woman in her all life is to obey.”
“The important thing in dealing with the Indian is not to believe everything you hear.”
“Don't tell me how hard you work. Tell me how much you get done.”
“The worst thing about proverbs and quotations is that the fools make no use of them.”
“Every great work, every great accomplishment, has been brought into manifestation through holding to the vision, and often just before the big achievement comes apparent failure and discouragement”
“The difficulties and struggles of today are but the price we must pay for the accomplishments and victories of tomorrow.”
“They search for black holes while we are living in one!”
“Practice makes perfect. How many times have parents uttered those words to encourage their children …?”
“Giving God a challenge is like lighting a candle to challenge the sun.”
“It is better to like what you have than to have what you like.”
“Love is a chain of love as nature is a chain of life.”
“It doesn’t matter of what colour you are as long as there is green clolur in your pocket.”
“success is not a one day process..”
“It is better to be completely ignorant than to be ill taught.”
“Honour is like an island, rugged and without shores; we can never re-enter it once we are on the outside.”
“A child will behave as he has been taught. Tolerance is one of the first lessons to be learnt.”
“If you want to buy something, ask at least three merchants.”
“A person who thinks that he knows something better doesn’t know that his wife knows better than him.”
“There is a price to pay for sin, and the sin is overpriced for the consequences in which it cost.”
“Life is as easy as you take it to be”
“The furry of dooms day have to be judged by the prophecy of the dunces”
“Some People are HARD working and some are HARDLY working...”
“Purpose is that Power that will propel you to get out of bed each morning and push you to make your Dreams come true.-RVM”
“Negative people don't have a say in this life,but only positive people.”
“The greatest value is what you are having at this moment, this time, this life !”
“Anythin That Makes You Weak Physically, Intellectually And Spiritually, reject As Poison .”
“For the sake of our offsprings, we will keep fighting for the Democracy, Freedom and Justice, as long as we can still breathe.
We all hope to see our offsprings to live in a world with the Democracy, Freedom and Justice !!!
This is the fundamental human rights !!!”
“There is no such thing as bad food when you are really hungry.”
“Hope to see a better human nature on earth !”
“Just because someone looks good doesn’t mean that they should be respected and trusted.”
“It is better to weave a net than to stand by the water longing for fish.”
“He who knows how to live, knows more than enough.”
“I love you, therefore I am alive.”
“It is always better to help the needy than the poor.”
“Whatever you do in life may be insignificant, but it is important that you do it, because nobody else will do it.”
“No one really knows about you better than your own shadow.”
“life without troubles is like a sea without waves”
“No one is perfect except two people : those who are dead and those who have not been born yet.”
“Sometimes we must lose ourselves to find ourselves.”
“Think before you speak but do not speak everything that you think.”
“Music is what I do, but that’s not who I am.”
“Temporary happiness can cause a lifetime of misery.”
“You move at the pace of time – Your intellect I do respect as I reflect – Just captures my breath – You’re a Star – In your darkest hours – You Shine. StarPower.”
“The plan is to expand like a rubberband.”
“Sound waves satisfies my craves.”
“Wake up, relax, breathe, and smile. That feeling is called Living! Enjoy the Moment.”
“Silence and darkness fills my night. I pray for light, as I kiss the world goodnight.”
“He who knows nothing is as blind as him who cannot see.”
“Time is my Soulmate and Patience is my Mistress.”
“Education is the poor man’s haven and the ignorant man’s hell.”
“Life is a constant duel between perception and reality.”
“Don’t praise your wife or neighbour’s wife in front of your neighbor.”
“Spirit being the fuel – Destination peace – Tears flow throughout the sea – Deception pollutes – Only to salute – Divine Love – Absolute.”
“Beware of the dog that doesn’t bark and the man who says nothing.”
“In the presence of chaos, the Loving Souls, calm the agitated emotional tsunami.”
“Many have sought after the code that unveils life’s mystery. The formula is masked under layers of distorted patterns, within us.”
“I’ve lost a few incredible women along the way, I had to get in tune with the rhythm of Gentle.”
“Time I won’t Waste – Mimic natures Pace – Simplicity being her Way – A clean Face – Doesn’t Replace – Pure Faith. Natures Drum.”
“Travel blind through mind - To find the root of mind - Only to find that I’m color blind - Life’s fusion of colors - Has distorted my mind. Coloration.”
“Once I saw that nothing was there, the illusion was shattered.”
“Give yourself a break and med-it-tate. Elevate your mind to find what lies behind the wall of mind. No need to rewind just….climb. JourneyofMind.”
“Your grip on life is way too tight. Loosen up, Smile, and Enjoy the Moment.”
“Spirit of love enwraps our nature captures anger while shielding away danger. Power of Love.”
“The Ego is the root of all Evil. Once the Ego is removed only then are we able to view the world with Pure Compassion.”
“The sound of silence is so loud.”
“As long as I have Music, I will never be lonely. She is my wife. No prenup!”
“To rocks knock – Creates a spark – Flame torch collide – Ignites the flight – Dark until Wisdom becomes light – Wakeup to begin – Life.”
“It is better to know yourself than someone to tell you who you are.”
“I’m gone ride til, the Flintstones fall off.”
“Life may sometimes be cruel, it may harm you, may hurt your feelings. And in times of great suffering, laugh at you.
And all you can do is smile back”
“Schools have class but they can't teach you how to have class... So even if you pass, it was half-assed, and you're not even pass the half. Teachers are really the students, studying the future and what it is holding... And the future is you, so ask yourself, What am I molding?”
“Power brings arrogance but wisdom brings Tolerance.”
“Lord iNvEsT in Me...tEacH me how to invest greatly in ur things o Lord...tRy mE wit unusual,uncommon greatness...and I wont fail U. U ve made me great but i thirst 4 more greatness.”
“All humans are born with only 2 fears... the fear of falling and the fear of a loud noise. All other fears are self inflicted.”
“Change is at the door, accompanied by anxiety and fear; if you dare to open it, you may find that opportunity lies on the other side.”
“The real show is when you have to prove yourself to yourself”
“You may teach me how to find blessings first, but I rather teach you how to find God first,'cos in finding God first lies the blessings.”
“Determination+Hardwork+Trust in God =The ONLY Road to SUCCESS”
“Stay in God's way and the devil will stay out of your way.”
“I don't want to keep being the only one to get inspiration from other people.. I want one day, I become the inspiration for other people.”
“The limitless world of sleep is akin to the limitless world of ideas & dreams.”
“Let your rejection be the reason of your success...”
“True love is when your heart and your minds are saying the same thing.,”
“Marriage is a device originated by women for looting the men.”
“A clever man tells a woman he understands her but a stupid man tries to prove it.”
“Never walk by FATE, but walk with FAITH.”
“Love is not a specific act, it is a way of being.”
“Marriage is a hunting permit that entitles you to only one dear at a time.”
“I am not here too please you or because it's convenient, I am here because I am here.”
“The reality of Today's World is not so much if you're Right or Wrong, but who you're aligned with !”
“'Must not give up even if you break.”
“It is only information which is the truth,that can set you free from your ignorance.”
“No one can punish us, our own karma but !”
“No one can punish us, our own karma but !”
“Time is the greatest thief in life !”
“You lose your repute the moment when you compare yourself with unworthy people.”
“The man who doesn’t know how to confer a kindness has not the right to ask any for himself.”
“Be strong and capable. Do whatever you set your mind to. Fill yourself with strength and confidence.”
““People who have nothing can see more clearly, than people who have everything.””
“We must live not as we like, but as we can.”
“Fight till Light!”
“The more we can smell, taste, touch, see, and hear, then the more common sense we have.”
“Make no mistake, we all would like to be successful; some of us just need the right guidance”
“Question to you – who will remember you after you are dead?”
“Today is defined by what you gave not what you got.”
“Mistakes open a new path, a path where those mistakes won't be repeated again.”
“It's only a problem, If you make it one.”
“I don't bother walking on thin ice, not that I am an expert at it. It's just that, I'm sure of my swimming skills.”
“Great people are great, know you are one”
“Settling is giving up, don't ever settle”
“success is not an achievement it's what you believe”
“Declaration brings manifestation.”
“Don't know what you've got, til it's gone... so get rid of it... and be surprised how much you've got without it.”
“Impossibility exist only in the weak minds”
“I have to find the other me to lay my shoulders on...”
“It doesn't hurt to take advise from those with something worthwhile to say.”
“Show me something that has not yet been survived and it will only be them I will believe in the imppossible!”
“No matter what I have done or not done I'm worthy of love”
“You can change or stay the same, there are no rules to this thing. We can make the best or the worst of it. I hope you make the best of it. And I hope you see things that startle you. I hope you feel things you never felt before. I hope you meet people with a different point of view. I hope you live a life you're proud of. If you find that you're not, I hope you have the strength to start all over again.”
“”The inspirational things we read don’t change the daily struggles we face, but they do give us prospective how we see ourselves.”
~ Tom Baker”
“Brains in your head, feet in your shoes...you can steer yourself in any direction you choose.”
“To get happy you have to give happy.”
“Life is short Heaven is forever”
“They say knowledge is power, but what is the good of knowing something if you cannot apply it to anything”
“Dance before the music is over. Live before your Life is over.-RVM”
“The present time is a gift you can only open once.”
“Drink and dance and laugh and lie, Love, the reeling midnight through, For tomorrow we shall die! (But, alas, we never do”
“PEACE is the foundation of Happiness —for where there is Anxiety, Tension and Turmoil, Joy cannot exist.-RVM”
“Squash a beef,bury the hatchet but don't bury the truth,spread it,let everybody know”
“Don't believe what you see ,don't believe what you hear,BELIEVE WHAT YOU FEEL”
“I love the name of honor, more than I fear death.”
“Your attempt may fail, but never fail to make an attempt.”
““I will draw you a world, where smiles substitute money, where hugs will cure cancer, where if sumting goes wrong I can always go back and erased than draw you a new one again, if i could only do such a thing I will have started first drawing a world where you actually love me......””
“Life is a roller coaster put ur seat belt down and enjoy it dont be angry or sad because this roller coaster is never longer enough”
“Great dreamers with great imaginations breed great accomplishments.”
“The same ugly outside of someone else, is the first ugly that started inside of self.”
“If your room is made up of glass..never ever try to throw a single stone to your neighbor.”
“Life's irony;When you upload an idea into your mind,the idea then begins to hunt you,for you to download it into reality.”
“knowledge is like a water,if it is stays it stinks like a stagnant pond”
“Between two sources of happiness, there's always a mix of spontaneity,love and trust. For they all create one. Us.”
“There you found me. Laying in the dark tall grass, blindfolded by age, with straps of cold attached to my hands and feet. My mouth was covered in jealousy but my heart was emerged in love. The love of you”
“Negativity only consumes the possibility of positivity”
“Fearing the end will only cancel out the beginning, and the middle.”
“Anything the naked eyes can see is vanity,but the things our two eyes cannot see are the real things.”
“Love without reason”
“Love without reason”
“If you get what you need first, the things you want will begin to appear.”
“A bikini is a bathing suit with a lot of nothing usually worn by a girl with a lot of something.”
“Two people can share a life of dreams, if they know their hearts desire, if they love,care,and always be there”
“FORGET THE PAST,ACT IN THE PRESENT and ACHIEVE IN FUTURE”
“Think To Do and Do To Win”
“Some people are in the habit of complaining about everything; even about the noise made by opportunity that knocks on the door.”
“Forgiveness Is The Best Given Thing In The World”
“It is my intense fear of mediocrity that drives me.”
“The same conclusion, that for some seems to arise, as insight from their own experiences, for others seems as the conclusion of long research and study. This tells me there is a single source we are all connected to, and which we all contribute too. Once we’re all aware of this source, there is no need anymore for the internet...”
“Society is made up of two classes those who get more than they earn and those earn more than they get.”
“A man makes his reputation not by what he writes, but by what others write about him.”
“Money doesn’t come for the asking. Often one has to adjust to the whims of one’s superiors, to flatter them and to please them. In the process one ceases to be free.”
“Denying your existence as a human, is probably the most humane thing one could ever do.”
“Don’t complain that your wife doesn’t make meals like your mother used to make if you don’t make money like your father used to make.”
“Reality is like a never ending rabbit hole.”
“The man who uses big words is afraid that if people knew what he was talking about, they would know he didn’t know what he was talking about.”
“The greatest attribute of the human species is the ability to learn, adapt, and most importantly, the will to never give up, or give in.”
“Don’t be led by the exterior. Give more attention to what lies beneath the skin.”
“When you want something you can't have consider that it's still better than having something you don't want”
“Tomorrow's a new day,but what if I don't want a new day?”
“Making smart choices in a corrupt system is no good anymore. For life to survive on planet Earth, it must be based on what Soul runs it instead of what body hides the latter.”
“The more you think life revolves around you the less it will.
(For my 17 year-old daughter - May she quickly gain wisdom.)”
“There's no such thing as luck. Only purposeful intent.”
“Follow your dreams to the end, no matter how difficult they may be, for if you love something, you should be willing to give it your all to make it happen...”
“When you have learned from life experience, then you have been taught by the very best.”
“Never ASSUME, never EXPECT, never ASK or SPEAK, never take for GRANTED any person especially for those people closest to your HEART,never be a person of PRIDE...or else you'll end up yourself as LOSER and HURT....for there is no constant in this world but CHANGE, and nobody' perfect but GOD-”
“Lord, I pray, in the midst of sadness and
confusion, help me to faithfully see your promises
of peace and joy in our hearts...”
““I love those who can smile in trouble, who can gather strength from distress, and grow braver by reflection””
“Getting goose bumps is like seeing somebody make nothing of the earth. They rock your world.”
“without letting go off the good, the better will never surface”
“If life keeps knocking you down, soon you'll learn to hold your left a little higher”
“To GET on with our move with GOD… We need to get to the POINT of NO RETURN wherein you can say-I Surrender ALL… Whatever YOU say LORD...I will do and choose only to OBEY.”
“Just because you came to the end of a cliff it doesnt mean that is the end,find a rope to climb down.”
“Let your inner light guide you up and over any hills or obstacles that you might encounter...it is more than capable.”
“What's so funny about seeking out what you don't know especially when your sanity and your future depend on it?”
“Success comes hopping on the three (mile)stones named Plan, Execute and Control from across the Devil's Pond of Procrastination.”
“Mother love is the fuel that enables a normal human being to do the impossible.”
“In life, sometimes we fail and sometimes we succeed, but usually we learn most from the journey.”
“this is my life. it is my one time to be me. i want to experience every good thing.”
“When God closes a door he opens a window to explore. You have no idea what he has in store, perhaps something you desired a whole lot more.”
“When a man’s temper gets the best of him, it reveals the worst of him.”
“Death is the last thing you will ever do.”
“The summit of happiness is reached when a person is ready to be what he is.”
“You are the most important ingredient to your success.”
“Pain gave me the desire to die; tears gave me the weakness to thrive; anger gave me the will to defeat; sympathy gave me peace of mind; love gave me serenity of heart; hope restored my inner child; faith carried me away from the grave; courage dried my tears; strength denied the sympathy and humbleness carried me through.”
“Those who are successful have failed more times than you.”
“May the struggles I face today never rain upon you, but may your struggles indeed be different than mine, that we may lean upon one another.”
“We all want to be great, but we don’t want people to know we want to be great.”
“Don’t wake me from this dream; I want to stay, please let me stay.
Reverie seems so much better to me; go away, please go away.
In reality I’m swimming upstream, shouting: mayday mayday mayday.
Shall I divert course and change theme? Time to pray; yes, I will pray.
To acquire a grandeur life so utterly supreme; I must begin today, no later than today.
Wake up and start Living The Dream; it’s time to play, come out and play.”
“The wise man will say I don’t know and the unknowing fool will answer.”
“Wisdom is not attained by the journey through life's circumstances and lessons learned, but rather, is attained through distinguishing the difference between logic and heart. When you're able to lead with your heart, over your logic despite the journey, you have achieved the greatness of wisdom.”
“If you close your eyes sometimes your vision becomes clearer as it is not clouded by pictures.”
“The one who loves the least, controls the relationship.”
“You are the most important ingredient to your success.”
“I am so grateful for my troubles. As I reflect back on my life, I have come to realize that my greatest triumphs have been born of my greatest troubles.”
“When was the last time you woke up and realized that today could be the best day of your life? Participate in your dreams today. There are unlimited opportunities available with this new day. Take action on those wonderful dreams you've had in your mind for so long. Remember, success is something you experience when you act accordingly. Success is not something you HAVE, it’s something you DO.”
“Live your truth. Express your love. Share your enthusiasm. Take action towards your dreams. Walk your talk. Dance and sing to your music. Embrace your blessings. Make today worth remembering.”
“The fool thinks he is wise and the wise thinks he is not a fool.”
““In Love, Morale and Honor, one decision can answer many questions.””
“Love is never wrong.”
“Give thanks for what you are
now, and keep fighting for what you want to be tomorrow. Don't look where
you fall, but where you slipped. Face what you think you believe and you
will be surprised.”
“Money can’t buy happiness, because you never have enough money.”
“Love has the power to break all chains - Swim the deepest seas - Endure the strongest pains - Love is the glow in the darkest night leading you on until you have sight.”
“People are known by the way they walk, talk and balk.”
“The death of a parent is expected, the death of a child is unexpected, and I expect everyone will die.”
“The size of a man is measured by what it takes to upset him.”
“Listen with your eyes. Then you can tell more. You cannot listen to a smile, you cannot listen to a frown, you cannot listen between right and wrong, truth to lies.”
“Be thankful when you wake that you are alive, and then show the world what you are capable of.”
“Storms blow away, the scars remain”
“If you really want to judge me, then judge not me at first sight.”
“Today is a new day. Don't let your history interfere with your destiny! Let today be the day you stop being a victim of your circumstances and start taking action towards the life you want. You have the power and the time to shape your life. Break free from the poisonous victim mentality and embrace the truth of your greatness. You were not meant for a mundane of mediocre life!”
“Recognize that throughout this beautiful day,you have an incredible amount of opportunities to move your life into the direction you want it to go.”
“Do not dilute the truth of your potential. We often convince ourselves that we cannot change, that we cannot overcome the circumstances of our lives. That is simply not true. You have been blessed with immeasurable power to make positive changes in your life. But you can't just wish it, you can't just hope it, you can't just want it... you have to LIVE it, BE it, DO it.”
“You know, we are all graveyard traveller, and we get there only when we stop travelling.”
“The word "seek" is a verb. Are you treating it as such in your life? If you seek change, success, of love, DO it - BE it!”
“You are not a victim. No matter what you have been through, you're still here. You may have been challenged, hurt, betrayed, beaten, and discouraged, but nothing has defeated you. You are still here! You have been delayed but not denied. You are not a victim, you are a victor. You have a history of victory.”
“The empowered woman is powerful beyond measure and beautiful beyond description.”
“Praise is something when a person tells you about yourself that you have suspected all along.”
“Knowledge is power? I’ll take imagination, motivation, perseverance and the sheer will to succeed over knowledge any day; I declare that knowledge is cumbersome and restricts creativity.”
“Take pleasure in the reality more than the dream; start Living The Dream.”
“I choose making a history everyday even if how hard they are, rather than part of a history.”
“Your opinion is not my reality.”
“As Christians we should not support or 'like' hate pages. We hate sins, but love the sinners. Promote love, be an inspiration be a plus rather than a minus.”
“Supremacy in the hands of fools is equivalent to a power surge; the lights go out.”
“Your self-worth is no greater than your dream; take baby steps towards your visions of grandeur every day.”
“When you are working to succeed, keep it in mind that failure is at the corner of the house.”
“Live every day as if GOD had a reason to grant you another”
“Money is power, wealth is a defence, how do you desire them?”
“So many people who desire poverty get it quickly, but those who desire wealth never have it.”
“"It is poetic injustice that we waste so many years of our lives, lost and in our own way, simply because of an erroneous choice to use someone else's broken compass." ~Robin Garrett Welsh (The Paper Whisperer)”
“whether you think you can or you think you can't your right.
Henry Ford”
“‎"Today is a new day. Don't let your history interfere with your destiny! Let today be the day you stop being a victim of your circumstances and start taking action towards the life you want. You have the power and the time to shape your life. Break free from the poisonous victim mentality and embrace the truth of your greatness. You were not meant for a mundane or mediocre life!" - Steve Maraboli”
“If you truly believe that we are God’s creations and that He is great and limitless, why can't you believe that you – one of His creations, are also great and limitless? Show God you truly believe in His creation by getting down to the business of reaching the potential He created in you.”
“When you believe in your dreams and realize that you are deserving and capable, no earthly being can stop you. You will no longer require external approval in order to feel validated. You will develop tenacity and perseverance. Most importantly, you will eventually reach your goals.”
“it is estimated that we are the average of the five people we spend the most time with. So, the state of our health, attitude, income, outlook on life - you name it, can all be determined by taking a look at the 5 closest people in your circle.”
“Trying to talk sense into someone that's being completely irrational, is like talking to a wall and expecting it to move. Thank God there is always another way to get through.~Nick Mansilla”
“Take your time, but make steady progress. Work it 'til it's right, but set milestones and benchmarks. Strive to be the best, but remember you are human. Get ready for the opportunity that God has in store for you.”
“Put yourself in this present moment now. Smell, feel, live, do all the things you need to do but never give up.”
“It took decades of negative experiences and hurts to build up your bad habits, defenses & issues; it'll take time to tear them down - cut yourself some slack”
“Frequent, long and honest looks in the mirror go a long way towards keeping you grounded and sane - it allows you to silence all the "noise"”
“It's okay to say "I'm no longer into that." If they can't respect the new direction of your life maybe it's time to rethink their place in your life”
“You would not plant an apple seed and expect lemons. Why then do you plant bad habits and poor choices then expect sustained relief?”
“Even the tiniest baby steps, taken often enough, cover great distances. It's time to get to stepping!”
“Customer Service Excellence begins with YOU: The Customer”
“Consider each interaction an opportunity to make a connection. Always Bring 100% of YOU.”
“The way I see it, there are three choices. 1) Continue to do the same stuff you’ve been doing and expect a miracle. 2) Complain and blame everyone else for your situation and expect a miracle. 3) Choose to live right and on purpose and CREATE a miracle.”
“I want to quote 10,000 hours for 10 years to become a master quoter!”
“TIME can change the FATE”
“The best creator next to god is a CIVIL ENGINEER”
“Don’t re-think; pre-think.”
“Look to yourself to find happiness. No one is so powerful to do it for you, or to take it away from you.”
“Unleash your inner child, be a little wild.”
“Find your inner genius and roll with it.”
“Keeping your word is never a problem; giving your word gets you in trouble.”
“Bad idea's are a dime a dozen, it's the good ideas that are worth eon's.”
“Marriage is something women do when they forget what their mother went through.”
“The common American will tend to love your money, not who you are.”
“Never take safety for granted. Always shake the bushes before you enter.”
“This world is nothing more than a culture of death which has set out to evolve.”
“Some people teach you to love, others teach you to live but the good ones teach you both.”
“It is death from which new life evolves therefore the evolution of death is life.”
“Take what life gives you if there is no more than a second chance.”
“Where will we be when inspiration steals our lives?”
“Trusting God is something we do in the same manner as reading instructions; when everything else fails.”
“We can only be better than ourselves, our minds are only as "weak" as we allow them to be.”
“Work is anything you don’t like to do.”
“You don’t have to be the brightest bulb in the house; when the darkness comes, you will be 100 watt.”
“Only a fool thinks of failure before trial”
“Forgive self and forget regret.”
“I have solutions. Looking for respective problems.”
“There is nothing that matters like love matters.”
“You're missing out if you think i'm nothing worth trying for, my beauty ain't the only thing i consist of, i'm ready to live my life by forgiving my past and remembering i am who i am because of it all, you'll see that perfection will never be found...Don't ever forget to love yourself cause what others think of you is only a matter of judgement and opinion♥!!*”
“He who soars on the wings of the Most High God, shall see no more limitation; but will OUTSTAND, OUTSHINE and OUTRUN others.”
“You have to be nice until you earn your first million, and after that people will be nice to you.”
“Stand up with complete conviction and be accounted for; your legacy depends on it.”
“Some people don’t know the difference between thinking for yourself and thinking of yourself.”
“Your value is a reflection of your values.”
“If we could see ourselves as others see us, we would never wish a second look.”
“Good manners are made up of letting people tell you what you already know.”
“Direct the future by focusing primarily on the present.”
“The future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams.”
“Fools are slaves of bias. They never use their minds to think nor to decide”
“Teaching Should Feel Like Breathing, With Your Oxygen Being Knowledge”
“It's beautiful to receive, but it's fulfilling to give.”
“Friends don't let friends talk about their friends.”
“Don't miss, you'll see.”
“Feeling powerless and not acting is like being hungry and choosing not to eat.”
“Death by Right; Love by Choice.”
“Too bad America is consumed by its government, so sad we aren't United States by its people.”
“Battle your fears face to face; step into the ring of change.”
““Always remember that something as simple as planting a seed can grow into a HUGE Difference.””
“Never trust a man who can forget his debt.”
“We need art as much as we need good works. You need it like food. You need it for inspiration, to keep going on the days that you're low. We need each other in that way.”
“People who wrestle with their consciences usually go for two falls out of three.”
“I'm a triangular peg in a square and round hole world”
“You can only accomplish what your imagination will allow; open your mind and seize the day.”
“We can not follow a life to gain wisdom, we must live it”
“The people who are comfortable with your weakness are only making it easier for you to fail.”
“Adversity challenges trust and reveals truth; you must continue to trust to find trust.”
“The willingness to become something in life is a prediction to your success.”
“Learn from your history but don’t live in it.”
“While spirituality provides an efficient and endless fuel for your mind and body, you must burn that fuel with human action towards your goals, dreams, and desires.”
“It is in the balancing of your spirituality with your humanity that you will find immeasurable happiness, success, good health, and love.”
“Life is a balanced system of learning and evolution. Whether pleasure or pain; every situation in your life serves a purpose. It is up to us to recognize what that purpose could be.”
“Free yourself from the burden of feeling the need to hold on to anything. Let go… you are a part of everything.”
“Ideas and philosophies have a shelf-life. They must be kept fresh and renewed or they will spoil. If left unattended, the same ideas and philosophies that once nourished you and helped you grow can poison you and make you sick. Become aware of new ideas that can refresh your way of life and be open to the fact that your old ideas and philosophies can work for you for some time, but when the shelf-life has passed, those ideas and philosophies could also harm you.”
“It's not always what we don't know that gets in our way; sometimes it's what we think we know that keeps us from learning.”
“Stop allowing your outdated ideas to hinder your progress. How would your life be different if you became open to new information that can refine, improve, enhance your way of thinking, and empower your way of living?”
“The word "seek" is a verb. Are you treating it as such in your life? If you seek change, success, or love, DO it - BE it!”
“What good is a dream, if you don’t act upon it?”
“From my scars i draw my strength,from my shambles I build my dreams”
“Don't Wait Till You're At The End Of Your Rope! Before You Take Action In Your Life!”
“Give A Smile Away and Change Someone's Life Today!”
“If things are going wrong in sequence and in all directions that means somethng big and great is coming your way.”
“You have to help yourself first! Limiting beliefs lead to limiting lives!”
“The mouth of an old man may smell but the advice coming form it is sweet.”
“My belief overcomes your doubt and all negativity!”
“Only education can open the mind and the heart of man to achieve happiness, welfare and peaceful life.”
“Don't Wait Till You're At The End Of Your Rope! Before You Take Action In Your Life!”
“My belief overcomes your doubt and all negativity!”
“My belief overcomes your doubt and all negativity!”
“Good advice is like a mini-skirt. It is short but covers the most important part.”
“You Don't Need A Wishbone You Need A Backbone! Take Control Of Your Life!!”
“You have to help yourself first! Limiting beliefs lead to limiting lives!”
“You have to help yourself first! Limiting beliefs lead to limiting lives!”
“We should always use our own exploring of self, our own moral perception of self, and our own reasoning of intellect to understand why we do what we do.”
“We are not supposed to live just for others to make us happy- we are to figure out what we can do for and in the service of others- making their lives better. Most problems come from passivity- not maintaining what others (or we) have already gained! Everybody has the same opportunity- BUT you must be willing to do "the thing" to take advantage of the opportunity.”
“Give A Smile Away and Change Someone's Life Today!”
“Give A Smile Away and Change Someone's Life Today!”
“I have a pain in my back that would kill two ordinary men”
“Ignorant teachers, dumb students.”
“RVM's Thought for the Day-"FAITH creates Energy that makes Success possible. DOUBT paralyses and makes the possible impossible."”
“What GOD Says DO, I WILL DO!! What GOD Says SAY, I WILL SAY!! WHERE GOD Says GO, I WILL GO!! I'LL PRAISE HIM!! I'LL WORSHIP HIM!! I'LL LIFT HIM UP!! OH YESSSSS, I'M ADDICTED TO HIS LOVE!!!! I'M HIGH On HIS SPIRIT!!! WOOO!!”
“Motivation is an awakening of the mind to be kind with own words towards others; Inspiration is an arising of kindness in own heart with others’ deeds and the contemplation is a kind of kindness with the words and the deeds of own and others’ soul.”
“OH YESSSS, TESTS and TRIALS Come to MAKE US STRONGER, WISER, HUMBLE, PATIENT, and ALL THINGS GOOD (Depending On HOW YOU LOOK AT IT)... During Those Times, LEAN and DEPEND On GOD... PLACE Your HOPE, FAITH, and TRUST In HIM... OBEY HIM... and WHEN The STORM Is OVER, You WILL Have LOVE, JOY, PEACE, and STRENGTH ABOUNDING...WOOO!!!”
“I'm NOT In COMPETITION With ANYONE IN THIS WORLD...I'm NOT ATTEMPTING To BRAG ABOUT ANYTHING... It's NOT ABOUT YOU... My GREATEST JOY Comes From SEEKING MY LORD, PRAISING MY LORD, WORSHIPPING HIM, OBEYING HIM, and FOLLOWING HIS WILL For MY LIFE... It's ALL ABOUT HIM!!!”
“My TOP GOAL and PRIORITY In This LIFE Is To PLEASE GOD FIRST... EVERYTHING ELSE WILL FALL Into Place...”
“Challenges equals opportunities.”
“That's the AWESOME Thing About MY LORD, When HE Comes KNOCKING AT MY DOOR It WON'T MATTER What YOU THINK or SAY... HE KNOWS ALL and SEES ALL.. There's ONLY ONE JUDGE!!”
“When NO ONE ELSE DID, GOD SAW The BEST IN ME... But NOT ONLY That, HE BRINGS OUT The BEST IN ME...”
“If You're LIVING FOR GOD, WHY SHOULD You FEAR The UNKNOWN or THROW In The TOWEL When Things GET a LITTLE TOUGH??? GOD Is The HEAVY WEIGHT CHAMPION OF ALL CREATION... HE'S GOT THAT!!!”
“When LIVING LIFE STEALS Your JOY, MAKES You WANT TO QUIT, KNOCKS You DOWN, or MAKES You WANT To KNOCK SOMEBODY ELSE DOWN, Just REMEMBER That GOD IS IN CONTROL...”
“SOME Say that it's BETTER To Be a LEADER and NOT a FOLLOWER. But I Say that I WILL FOLLOW WHERE EVER GOD LEADS ME, I WILL LEARN WHATEVER GOD TEACHES ME, I WILL DO WHAT HE WANTS ME TO DO, SAY WHAT HE WANTS ME TO SAY...USE ME LORD!!!”
“I know that I am at the side of Atheism, But atleast I do the right things instead of doing the wrong. I want to die for my country I want to be a hero for my Country. I want people to look up to me and say Thank You for saving me\us. If I don't become a Hero You will!!”
“I'M SEEKING THE KINGDOM Of GOD FIRST... Friends are GOOD, But NOT a TOP PRIORITY...”
“I am COMPLETELY HUMBLED... LIFE EXPERIENCES has taught me NOT TO WORRY About Things that I CANNOT CONTROL... and Just To LET GO, and LET GOD!! I Place ALL My HOPE, FAITH, and TRUST In HIM... HE CAN and WILL Work ANYTHING OUT... IT MAY NOT ALWAYS Be WHEN and THE WAY WE WANT IT, But HE'S ALWAYS RIGHT ON TIME..”
“All that happens means something; nothing you do is ever insignificant.”
“Balance your life in favor of principle, over privileged flavor.”
“COMMITMENT, DEDICATION, LOYALTY, SINCERITY... IT'S YOUR WILL, YOUR WAY... STEADFAST and UNMOVABLE, ALWAYS ABOUNDING IN YOU LORD...”
“The DEVIL Doesn't Like IT When Your SPIRIT Is HIGH and You're FOCUSED On The LORD!! He'll Come In ANY FORM and ANY WAY To BLOCK Your BLESSINGS FROM GOD!!! Well to THAT, I Say PRAISE GOD!!! THANK YOU LORD!!! My JOY, My LOVE, My PEACE, My STRENGTH, My ALL, My PROVIDER, My SUPPLIER, My EVERYTHING... THANK YOU, THANK YOU LORD!!! YOU ARE EVERYTHING That I NEED...”
“Build what you know will take flight.
Battle for what you know to be right.
Never stop till you and your dreams unite.
The reward is priceless and well worth the fight.”
“Words are cheap and will perish with you, unless you build with them.”
““As the Old Saying goes, 'MISERY LOVES COMPANY!' But, I'm Here To Tell You That GOODNESS, KINDNESS, JOY, LOVE, PEACE, and STRENGTH LOVE COMPANY TOO.... WOO!!””
“So what the folk you expected to be happiest about your positive growth are your biggest doubters, haters & detractors. It sucks, but is not a show stopper. Don't get mad, get great”
“when the world is going to hell in a handbasket around you, do what I do:fill it with fruit”
“Sometimes in Order to MOVE FORWARD, SPIRITUALLY GROW, and WALK WITH THE LORD, You Just HAVE To LET Some Things and People GO...”
“hope the life also had some widgets to success”
“The world's way is to judge, when we are children we don't have these thoughts, the world puts them there, it conforms us to not like people we don't agree with. If we Remain as a child then we may never judge, only forgive what we disagree with.”
“IT'S ONLY THOSE That AREN'T RIGHT and DON'T WANT To BE RIGHT That DON'T WANT To HEAR RIGHT...”
“The only ones who can control our thoughts are ourselves.”
“You can't wash away your guilt no matter what you do until you confess to what you have done or regret it for the rest of your life"”
“The future will be dark if those with bright minds keep their light bulbs unscrewed.”
“not because we can not do, but because we do not want to do that.”
“Follow imagination,for it can take you to the place where both knowledge & wisdom dare not go.”
“each meeting there must be a separation, do not weep for the breakup, but wept because there was a meeting.”
“I may be a dreamer but I know what I have! I have dreamed about it and you my whole life!”
“Nobody can blame you if you were born in poverty..,but, to die broke, put the blame on yourself.”
“Every moment of Life is a Challenge to Choose. Some Win, some Lose.-RVM”
“Running from your problems wont put food on your table. Unsolved problems block your opportunities.”
“A better path for all children today will create a better path for their children tomorrow. Let's help each other build a better world for all”
“Don't ever settle for anything less than you deserve because out there somewhere someone will appreciate you not for what you are but for who you are”
“Don't expect change in life unless you realize life is constantly changing.”
“I trust my intuition more than any other knowledge, it directs me towards the truth.”
“A person who is willing to help doesn’t wait until he is asked.”
“Do you hear that voice in your head? You need to take a moment every day and listen to it. Give it volume. It is the voice of the person you want to be. It is your self conscious screaming at you with all its years of accumulating experience telling you what to do next. What makes you happy. When you give that voice volume it will soon be loud enough to drown out your fears!”
“We only have a certain amount of time so don't focus on bullshit. Learn to separate the important from whats not. Learn what matters and what doesn't. Awesomeness happens when you let it. Sometimes you have to say FUCK YOU and sometimes you need to say I LOVE YOU. Be the person who can say both and mean it. Put energy into people who earn it. Fill your life with passion, rock star moments and great breakfasts.”
“When helping people in general, never expect anything in return”
“A man who is wise is only as wise as his wife thinks he is.”
“Your value is no greater than your gift.”
“Do you know what you want to be when you grow up; have you grown up yet?”
“Cash is Queen; Courage is King.”
“If you don’t do all that you are paid to do, soon nobody will want to pay you for what you do want to do.”
“Your dreams will come true if you take steps towards their manifestation everyday. Believe; it can happen to you.”
“Life is not always a matter of choice, but it always a matter of usage”
“take out your emotions and beliefs from the equation. remove the anger and sadness you're feeling or the moral and ethical justification you've developed. all your left with, is the action, and the consequences. and thats all of the equation anybody else will see.”
“Judging me before you get to know me is a reflection of your problems.
Judging me on my appearance is a reflection of your insecurities.
Judging me on the inside is a reflection of your feelings.
Not judging me at all shows that you're a TRUE human being.”
“Set goals for yourself to accomplish. Live with endless determination and don't let one single thing interfere with that passion. Protect your dream until it's yours for good. As you complete that self-accomplishment, you become more aware of your capabilities, and you appreciate the gift of life like never before.”
“Don’t be afraid of being Happy. You deserve to be Happy.-RVM”
“Seal the memories inside my soul like an envelope.. Time progresses by the second. Gazing at the waves build up before they thrust upon the shore.. Take a look around.. Wonder.. Inhale hope. Learn from my rear view, gain courage. Remain to love myself.. There's a reason behind everything.”
“When the tides at it's highest level... It crashes harder than ever.. Leaving you with nothing.. Until the next wave builds up enough power and courage to grow higher... And stronger, as you can only hope that it won't ever have a downfall.”
“The Words You Say Will Influence Your Clients Today, So Choose Your Words Wisely... Negative or Positive What Is The Out Come You Want?”
“The Words You Say Will Influence Your Clients Today, So Choose Your Words Wisely... Negative or Positive What Is The Out Come You Want?”
“The Words You Say Will Influence Your Clients Today, So Choose Your Words Wisely... Negative or Positive What Is The Out Come You Want?”
“One tear in life reflection of joy is of greater meaning than countless cried any day given in sorrow.”
“When Circumstances do not favor You, it's time for You to be patient and continue to Survive.”
“Trust is like paper. Once it's crumpled, it can't be perfect”
“In your mind there is an image of opulence; imagine what your life could be like if you built out this image, and then build it.”
“Never think too small for the world,for the world needs your big dreams to survive.”
“Your future is always ahead of you until your time has expired. That is the only moment that you will have completed your time for anything.”
“Just remember...the sun is always shining behind the clouds.”
“Just remember...the sun is always shining behind the clouds.”
“When it comes to love, often times people say follow your heart. But I recommend the Holy Spirit to lead you to that Priceless jewel.”
“Set your intention and let the Universe decide how you are going to reach it.”
“When you get rewarded for your Hardwork,you forget all of the pains you have come across on your journey to exellence”
“Let your world be wonderful today, breathe in the sweetness of all that is good. Though the challenges and concerns are real, so are the most magnificent of possibilities. Imagine the best of what can be and find true delight in making it real.”
“What others may have said or done or failed to do cannot be changed now. Forgive, be bigger than what happened and be confident enough to move past it. Allow peace into your days “Let go and let God.””
“Be kind to yourself and you'll create lasting value to your world. Provide yourself with energy, commitment and determination to do much, and regularly give yourself some peaceful, relaxing time to do nothing. Treat yourself with the highest of expectations, for life is as good as you choose to make it.”
“Every day, be strong enough to accept the challenges of life.
Whatever comes your way, give it meaning and transform it into something of value. Don’t ask life, ‘Why me?’ Instead say, ‘Try me!’”
“If you are not obsessed with anything, then you are obsessed with nothing.”
“Looking back at yesterday will never bring tomorrow!!”
“The mind will not walk on pavement that it cannot see, see the forward vision.”
“Each time a man looks into your eyes, he is only searching to find himself. For he is only searching for his other half. Knowing with just a glance that can blind him, distract him, causing a link that's almost impossible too break. Hoping with such a connection that those eyes full of color will show direction, passage, hope, his destiny.”
“ Intelligence is not limited to a certain man or woman, but unlimited to the common man and woman”
“Make TODAY so beautiful that your YESTERDAY is something you will smile about TOMORROW.-RVM”
“I’m scared to death of not Living The Dream.”
“A wealth of knowledge is openly accessible in nature. Our ancestors knew this and embraced the natural cures found in the bosoms of the earth. Their classroom was nature. They studied the lessons to be learned from animals, knowing that much of human behavior can be explained by watching the wild beasts around us. Animals are constantly teaching us things about ourselves and the way of the universe, but most people are too blind to watch and listen.”
“Think about this: Eternity is but a heartbeat, but a breath
Away. Make the most of every breath you take in, of
Every beat your heart gives you, each moment”
“Equality is a behavior that will eventually descend you downward in due time. Strive to be a leader in life that forges new paths; only then will you be free.”
“We have before us the glorious opportunity to inject a new dimension of love into the veins of our civilization.”
“If you fall flat on your face or bottom; don't stay down. Pick yourself up, brush yourself off, wipe the tears from your eyes; blow the snat out of your nose, clean the bruises with hydro peroxide, put on the bandages and start again.”
“When you are living the best version of yourself, you inspire others to live the best versions of themselves.”
“When you are living the best version of yourself, you inspire others to live the best versions of themselves.”
“When you are living the best version of yourself, you inspire others to live the best versions of themselves.”
“Those seeking for the greatest weapon, GOD has given it to us already, our brain.”
“Greatness is not a birthright.
Strap on your armor and fight.
Failure is not an option despite.
It’s your story and book to write.”
“Many people will never be bothered by air pollution because they don’t stop talking long enough to take a deep breath.”
“Nobody is a loser in LIFE because the game of LIFE only ends when you DIE. So, while you are ALIVE, you cannot LOSE; The GAME is still ON; You always have a second chance to make a comeback. Be a WINNER!!!”
“The world would be a lot better if people paid as much attention to their conscience as they do to their neighbour’s opinions.”
“You know that every Man-made, must have a user guide for usage. and GOD, made ​​the heavens and the earth and its contents with a guide for the care and use as possible, namely the Qur'an and Sunnah.”
“Nowadays some girls seem more particular about choosing their lawyers than choosing their husbands.”
“When you are not happy in your life, love or job then when NOW is the time to change your course in one or all of these areas because you only have one life to live.”
“Running ain't Freedom.”
“Feel the moment. Direct the moment. Steal the moment. It’s your moment.”
“If nations began telling each other nothing but the truth, peace would immediately vanish from the earth.”
“According to the latest statistics there are five million people in our country who are not working. And there are even more if you count those with jobs.”
“Women and telephones repeat what they hear, but only the telephone repeats it exactly.”
“Get ready, get set, go; start now, what you want to finish.”
“If you stay positive, all the challenges big and small, will be easy to deal with, regardless if you physically or mentally can or can't... If you maintain positiveness either success or failure is an easy and acceptable part of life'
Anthony Lynch”
“Educating a child is more pious than worshiping God”
“HOPE itself means Half Of Problem Ends. Remaining half you can "solve" with your efforts.
Wow!. So let HOPE be your driving force.”
“We need more than just the Law of Attraction. We need to connect with its more successful twin, the Law of Generosity. And further entwine ourselves with their parent; the Law of Love.”
“Whenever you find something difficult remember that you crawled before you could walk straight”
“It takes just one second to change your life.
In a day there are 86400 seconds.
Wow! you have 86400 life changing moments in a day.”
“to be a leader or to have a success
u have to see failure first”
“if ignorance and silence are the widgets to life then wisdom and honesty are its database.”
“In life all our needs & wants are met inside our imagination.”
“Beauty by design is not as great a gift as beauty inside.”
“Be humble. Remain grateful. Think positive, and By the grace of God you will succeed.”
“I’m not here to talk about being sick; I’m here to talk about Living.”
“How you believe is how you are. Do not hide in desolation, I know time is not on your side, but use what you got, and courageously go after your dreams. Remove the darkness with your mind, redress your heart with vitality, and you will soon discover greatness resides in all of us. You matter, every life does!”
“The true philosopher is one who makes people believe that he admires what he does not admire.”
“An educated man is not judged by the answers he knows, but by how many questions he is capable of asking.”
“Past reforms the present & present determines the future...”
“Never take investment advice from those who have to work every day for a living.”
“The primal and the best education are from family.”
“The primal and the best education are from family.”
“Fear kills resolutions; resolutions kill fear. Don’t let fear kill your resolution.”
“Almost everything can be tolerated - as long as we don’t know what we want.”
““Who you become is infinitely more important than what you do, or what you have.””
“Courage is not what people think you have but to appear to them as good as what you really are.”
“If you are not the hero of your own story, then you're missing the whole point of your humanity.”
“Not every weather suits every mentality.”
“Even when things go wrong,remain right in your thinking.”
“It Is Time To Awaken The Thunder Within YOU!”
“We all go through times that are rough & want to give up, but imagine how rough they would be if you actually did. Give every situation your best; it’s all you’ve got; besides you owe it to yourself!”
“A dream is like a tree.. No matter how many times someone cut it out, It will grow up again fresher and bigger..”
“Will you win? Will your win!”
“Imagine what your life would be, if only you would commit to your imagination.”
“The Real taste of life is in struggle.neither in victory nor in defeat.”
“Motivation and Inspiration in a person's life are directly linked to the people who surround him and indirectly with those who are connected to the people in his surroundings.”
“" We seldom realize that we are living in the future until it becomes our past"
Teddy Leon”
“It’s funny how happiness is often sown by the saddest people. Sadder still, we rarely recognize how many people’s lives we touch, and how.”
“I’m not quite sure when vanity disappeared from my life, but I’m pretty sure growing up had something to do with its disappearance.”
“Happiness is not a thing to be sought,
it is a virtue meant to be brought.”
“Love Funny Money
Then Vote
Cain vs Unable
2012”
“Commitment is paramount to achieving success; without it, you’re drawing dead.”
“Life is busy and deadlines are always looming. In the rush to get things done, don't forget to enjoy the pure experience of it all. Reaching a destination is always nice, but savor the sweet taste of the journey - for it is the bulk of life and the real reward.”
““If and when the world does not meet your expectations, pick up a pen and paper and create your own.””
“Forget About the past, focus on your present your future will be secure”
“The purpose of truth is not to make us happy. Rather, we should simply be happy by knowing the truth.”
“sometimes the most angry people are those... who are silent...”
“To see her was to fall in love with her. To hear her was to hear music. To feel her was to feel silk. Her beauty inspired a thousand poems within me. Some of which I tried to pen, but compared to her, it was gibberish.”
“no one is a stranger in this world... we all belong to one family... just we never got opportunity to meet yet...”
“The job of the poet and the writer is to conceive an idea or emotion and pursue it with such might to make it surrender in words.”
“holi wipes out all bitterness and transforms foes into friends... enjoy the spirit of festival... and spread the color of happiness... "Happy holi"...”
“If you keep doing things that don't matter to you, you will not have time to do things that really do.-RVM”
“words that tend to rob anyone heart... if not making attempt to understand the words... it transforms the whole things it contacts... and test the limit of our soul...”
“Problems are like Balloons. We let them unnecessarily blow up.-RVM”
“anger... the substitute emotion... that comes up... so you do not have to feel...”
“War should be so engaged in that nothing but peace should appear to be aimed at.”
“sometimes pleasure to listen to persons... who makes you so happy... that you overlook all the pains and takes you to where you belong...”
“sometime our emotions make us weak... and defenseless to unacceptable actions...”
“freedom doesn't means liberty... liberty doesn't means freedom...”
“A miser is like an ass that carries gold and eats thistles all its life.”
“In relation... we deal with emotion not with logic...”
“anger is not sinful... but our appearances of anger can be sinful...”
“i am very annoying... when I am being true to myself...”
“A man who dresses in others’ clothes will be undressed on the highway.”
“true appreciation will generate the positive feeling in you... and fires with enthusiasm...”
“true friend is our own soul... listen very carefully when they whisper...”
“you can't change who you were... only who you will become...”
“Lead my inspiration, not intimidation”
“we start the transformation... when we turn within and believe our self...”
“what people think or say about us... is not our problem... it’s their problem... what you desire... therefore you are...”
“always be the person you desire to be... and not the person everyone else desires you...”
“If you want to do something, just do it today, because the tomorrow will never become the today”
“Heartbeat is the foundation.”
“Everyone is a star, for you to shine, you must find your way through the cloud for the world to see.”
“People may say that I think I know everything. I don’t. What I do know is that people are too caught up with the fickleness of today and they ignore the reality of tomorrow.”
“I believe people become workaholics to find the perfect love, in my case I found it before.”
“Your dreams and desires are not impossible to conquer. But to do so; you must prepare yourself for war. This undertaking is not for the weak; it will lead you into the depths of darkness and despair, challenging your commitment. The journey will take great sacrifice, heart, perseverance and patience in order for you to summit Mt. Success.”
“-Never lose faith-”
“Never judge a person by how poor they seem to be,being rich or poor start from the mind,it has got nothing to do with possession!”
“Leaders who aren't inspired by others can't inspire others.”
“No matter where you are never forget your roots, A flower on a plant stays longer than in a Vase.”
“The World is beauty beyond imagination, and the creator of the world is Allah.”
“You will find peace only if you are looking for it.”
“If your dreams don't keep you awake, then you are probably enjoying them. You'll never achieve them.”
“My past has not defined me, destroyed me, deterred me, or defeated me; it has only strengthened me.”
“Oopportunities are less.... But at the same time are infinite!!
& I am not sleeping hungry!!”
“Believe that your dreams can come true.
You are the proprietor of your life’s blueprints.
Be courageous and commence construction now.
Own up and take responsibility for its completion.
Don’t stop building until your heart tells you to do so.
Share the fruits of your labor with all whom desire.
Entrust your creation to good hands and then start a new.”
“You may legally become an adult at a certain age but the moment you truly become an adult is the moment you realize you want things for those you love and admire more than you want things for yourself.”
“Looking for God? Know your purpose, know your Self!
God reveals to you in that knowing”
“Question now and again the old habits and replace them with new beliefs that help you on your path”
“Have you ever realized the infinite nature of love? Let’s give it away! It is unlimited!”
“The best way to make things work out is by working together.”
“Let your heart say “I Love You”? It should be the most spoken affirmation of the day… I love you!”
“Be Grateful you are not like a rock that has no Choice. The Sun Shines on it,the Waves Splash at it. You have a Choice to move and to make your Dreams come true.-RVM”
“Feel your own wings, so that you may see the light of all the angels that always surround you”
“Don't embarrass yourselves trying to fit in with these dummies of society...these people don't know any better.”
“True beauty is in your “I”, see yourself with the heart and become your real self”
“Appreciate the light that always surrounds you, you must shine bright as the moon always does for you”
“Learn how to forgive and become One, so that a world free of violence is POSSIBLE in the NOW!”
“Let’s always feel love for those who may seem in need… never pity!”
“Can you imagine a world where everyday we all commit to make a difference in our own life?”
“I am not perfect. Are you? Let us accept the fact that nobody is perfect. Let us learn to accept our imperfections as well as those of others.-RVM”
“Now or Future, which one do you choose to BE in?”
“don't be afraid of the things you're gonna do, be afraid of the shit that will haunt you.”
“Feel the love of that happy space you carry within wherever you go: HOME!”
“With every fall, you learn to do it better”
“The only way to achieve happiness is by feeling good, not by working hard!”
“Some of the most exciting ventures have been created around distractions which first appeared attractions.”
“Tonight: Be grateful for all that you have lived today and start dreaming your new YOU!”
“Tonight: Be grateful for all that you have lived today and start dreaming your new YOU!”
“Be still! In the silence of the heart,
One learns the journey of the wise”
“Love is both the consequence and condition of moral perfection.”
“Possible or impossible? Believe that you can do anything and you will!”
“Possible or impossible? Believe that you can do anything and you will!”
“Learn how to speak in Love! Your heart will teach you the only language we can all understand!”
“Learn how to speak in Love! Your heart will teach you the only language we can all understand!”
“Love with passion what you do…
Success is the natural result of that love!”
“Don't be amongst those trying to build a better Tomorrow. We can have a better tomorrow only if our Today is better than our Yesterday.-RVM”
“Don’t you see there is only one thing surrounding you?
It is called ABUNDANCE!”
“Don’t you see there is only one thing surrounding you?
It is called ABUNDANCE!”
“How do you want the crowd to react at the end of your show; the outcome resides within your performance.”
“Passion, Dedication and Enthusiasm - It's how you apply yourself on a daily basis in things that you love that help create the positive change you will see.”
“Morning... I'm walking down the street,
wearing my headphones,
absorbing each molecule of the fresh air,
watching the buds on the trees,
looking into the blue sky and feeling warmth of the sun rays on my face,
squinting in the sun,
making thanks to Heavens for everything I have,
feeling happy because I’m young and in love,
wishing peace and joy for people around,
waiting for a miracle…
simply having pleasure from each moment of my life…
isn’t it a good start of a new day?!”
“Darkness is the birth of a new dawn, it must be celebrated not feared .”
“Ideas are important, but success is in the motion.”
“You possess the key to unlock your dreams; set them free.”
“Dream It Sweet!”
“Life is like a tree, it changes as the season goes by. The leaves may fall down because of it, but it'll grow back as long as our feet are still on the ground.”
“Surface creativity, even if it buries you.”
“Being alive is my destiny, dying just a destination.”
“Rejoice when you fall; for in that moment, you are the closest to the foundation.”
“I finally named my fly on the wall; her name is Intuition.”
“‎By reacting from fear instead of responding from love, you inject poison directly into the veins of your relationship.”
“It doesn’t cost much to be Happy if the currency of your heart is the blowing of the breeze and the swaying of the trees.-RVM”
“Contemplating is a waste of your time as well as mine.”
“All that is real is seen with the heart.”
“Your time on Earth is only a lease; if you neglect the property, you’ll get evicted before your lease is up.”
“Every Dog has a day and every human has a life. It all depends on what you want to be. The strange thing is that you cannot call yourself one of them instead you have to show others which of them you are.”
“Regardless of age, race, or gender everyone wants their mind blown
-Josh Wang”
“People, as a whole, believe in the idea of change-not in actually changing”
“Mind your mother, help your father.”
“Only GOD, Angels and change are immortal, all else will perish like all that came and departed before.”
“Failing in love is not sad, only failing to love is sad. Sad is the chance you miss when you don’t put your heart on the line.”
“Like a feather in the air, like a leaf in the sea, I surrender to Thee, I surrender to Thee.-RVM”
“Where love once bloomed, the seeds of love lay dormant, just waiting to be nurtured and bloom again even more magnificently.”
“Poverty please before you vanish from my dictionary,abide with me a little while & make me wiser.”
“Live the present in such a way that in the future, you will need not be ashamed of your past.”
“I hate mediocrity the way a recovering alcoholic hates hard liquor, and I hate it for the same reason. It is at war with all of my hopes, aspirations, and dreams.”
“Vanity and greed lose to humility and need every time.”
“The reason why we get educated is so that we can take shit.”
“The problem with looking back too often is that it increases the likelihood of tripping over things that lay in your path just ahead.”
“Life is like an Hourglass. The grains of sand drop one by one and then it’s all over. Live before you die.-RVM”
“Love Don't Run, Neither Do I.”
“Who told you that you won't MAKE IT!!?”
“Understanding is the only key for a better perfomance”
“I want to fly over the mountain's peek as winds
Want to bring up the sand of ocean's bottom
Want to sprint faster then leopard
Want to fly like feather do with the breeze
Want to drawn deep into the ocean like sun do
Want to conceal behind the clouds like moon do
Cold as outer space
Warm as earth's womb
To be silent as desert's are
Want to roar louder then the thunders do
innocent as a child
i want........me back.”
“To move ahead you need to believe in yourself...have conviction in your beliefs and the confidence to execute those beliefs.”
“Here is the secret of inspiration: Tell yourself that thousands and tens of thousands of people, not very intelligent and certainly no more intelligent than the rest of us, have mastered problems as difficult as those that now baffle you”
“We should be taught not to wait for inspiration to start a thing. Action always generates inspiration. Inspiration seldom generates action.”
“My greatest fear of failure is to be denied another opportunity to try again.”
“You are never too old to set another goal or to dream a new dream.”
“Don't imitate others in life, set your own goals and ensure that you achieve them.”
“For every minute you are angry you lose sixty seconds of happiness.”
“Although am not selfish_ but if God's strength is made perfect in my weakness; then I desire to be weak all through.”
“They who lack talent expect things to happen without effort. They ascribe failure to a lack of inspiration or ability, or to misfortune, rather than to insufficient application. At the core of every true talent there is an awareness of the difficulties inherent in any achievement, and the confidence that by persistence and patience something worthwhile will be realized. Thus talent is a species of vigor.”
“Once we accept our limits, we go beyond them.”
“When one door closes, another opens. But we often look so regretfully upon the closed door that we don't see the one that has opened for us.”
“I'll hear his words and wonder what inspired him to say, but never does her share. I ask and ask, but all he says is that he cannot tell. I try so hard to get the answer, knowing that it won't come, but somehow I just need to know. Were his words directed to me or about me in some way. I know that is wrong to ask again and again, but sometimes I can't help it just kills me not to know.”
“Being the BEST doesn't matter But what you do after being the BEST, matters the most!!!!”
“The Best You Can Do, Is the Best You Can Imagine !!!”
“Positive thinking will let you do everything better than negative thinking will.”
“People put up wall, but walls are meant to be broken”
“Your life could be so much better, if you would only decide that it will.”
“When we let our Greed become our Need, we can never be happy indeed!-RVM”
“Nothing is something in disguise.”
“Knowledge speaks a more discerning language than wealth.”
“There is no space for us, we have got to make our own space.”
“If life is a dream I shall sleep for eternity.”
“The past ruins the present to destroy the future. Take charge of the NOW.-RVM”
“Life is not easy and unfair but still live in ease”
“cruelty is bound on our souls”
“Being to nice to humanity makes Evil”
“''Hardwork doesn't mean smartwork-
You can cut a tree by using a knife, an axe or by an electric wood cutter.''
(Sabin Wilfred)”
“Somestimes NATURAL BEAUTY is BETTER than the EDITED ONES!!!”
“''He who loves sunlight and dark nights can love almost anything in this world.''
(Sabin Wilfred)”
“''Drunken eyes and smoky nostrils never dream.They only imagine.''
(Sabin Wilfred)”
“Never get dishearted, walk a bit more...you'll see something...at least a lottery shop.''
(Sabin Wilfred)”
“Yesterday does not define who you are right now. The decisions you're about to make today will.”
“I grew TALLER in all Levels, Not Just My Height!”
“Love they say is wicked, I can accept the wickedness of Love, but what i can't take is its Cruelty”
“want to be amazing, be yourself”
“Don't try to live forever - You can't! But you can do things that will live forever.-RVM”
“Everybody has to die. Why cry, when you have wings to fly!-RVM”
“Twin Flame ~ Soul Mate
If This Is what you seek,
You Must Be The Person to attract them into your life .
Start by LOVING Yourself.”
“Your dreams will never reach the stars if they never leave the ground.”
“If happiness had a physical form I think it would be glass. It's always there, you just need to look at it at a different angle to see it sometimes; and it can be shattered in an instant.”
“The thoughts of an unsettled mind are the puzzle pieces of it's exsistence”
“Writing is like recycling for your brain you can get it out and reuse it later if it's any good.”
““A bully is a coward, scared, weak and has no real power, but a victim has nothing but strength to face a bully”.”
“It starts with Dreams—Dreams create Desires, Desires create Determination, which leads us to our Destiny.-RVM”
“Whether you learn a lot or a little of something, it equips you for change.”
“Whether you learn a lot or a little of something, it equips you for change.”
“If you cannot be a part of the greatest, be the greatest yourself.”
“God walks 'round in muddy boots, sometimes rags and that's the truth. You can't always tell but sometimes you just know. - From the song "Geodes"”
“everyone is an artist; it just depends on how good you are.”
“You CAN'T be sad in London.”
“We make our path in this world our own way, it's time for our generation to shine.”
“Living without meaning is not Life, it is Death. It is like being in the graveyard except that you still have breath.-RVM”
“Have faith that today will bring you closer to your dreams, and then start walking.”
“Stars in the sky can be admired and observed on Earth long after they’ve ceased to exist. If the light of the life you have lived has the same affect on others, then you deserve a place in the night’s horizon as well.”
“Christianity: The main cause of distrust and disbelief in Jesus Christ, despite his true role in History.”
“She won't ask nor tell, only speak when spoken to.”
“An Atheist wouldn't believe in the word's of Jesus Christ because of the worldly Christian.”
“Could've, should've, would've will not ever refer to today.”
“No matter how difficult life gets, how slow your process gets, never give up on your dreams. Hold them close to your heart as if it's your last breath and achieve them one by one!”
“Become a master of 'not settling' and you will know true fulfillment.”
“There is a sacredness in tears. They are not the mark of weakness, but of power. They speak more eloquently than ten thousand tongues. They are messengers of overwhelming grief...and unspeakable love.”
“If we cannot see things better, we will never make things better. Optimism fueled by passion is always the most powerful perspective!”
“Perhaps they are not stars, but rather openings in heaven where the love of our lost ones pours through and shines down upon us to let us know they are happy.”
“We all have at times our doubts that tomorrow will be better than today. Sometimes worrying more about your today than your tomorrow, will make your tomorrow better than you expected.”
“People are always Inspired by other stories,But never by there Own”
“People are always Inspired by other stories,But never by there Own”
“Be strong, be brave, be the hero today; it’s your turn to step up to the plate.”
“The only morning people are motivated people”
“How To Achieve Success: Define It, Research It, Find Obstructions To It, Find Remedies To It,Outline It, Plan It, Do It.”
“People Will Treat You The Way They See You. If You Act Goofy Or Too Easy To Conclude On Matters, People Won't Treat You With The Esteem You Seek.”
“Properly Placed Shame Shows Moral Character, but Not Putting Yourself In A Position To Experience Shame Shows Wisdom.”
“Every second is an opportunity to change something should you decide it.”
“The more you give to some people, the more they hate you for not giving more.”
“Starting is the most important step to your success; without it, you’ll never succeed.”
“Do not follow your dreams ... always let the dreams follow you !”
“Do not follow your dreams ... always let the dreams follow you !”
“Financial Success, As Well As Most Success In Life, Is Not About Perfection, It's About Direction”
“Pride Should Come As A Result Of Successful Doing; It Should Not Dictate Your Doing.”
“Don't Be Afraid To Admit You Made A Mistake; It Shows A Willingness To Change To Improve Yourself.”
“Everything In Life Has A System To It. Learn It And Use It, And You Will Go Far.”
“I believe the true measure of a man is not what my boss, associatesor friends think or say about me. But what my kids say, believe and think of me when playing and talking to their friends.”
“If one doesn't trust the word through Jesus Christ than it is due to their lack of understanding in a world of hypocrisy.”
“Risk everything regret nothing”
“What is meant to be is not given, but is strived for through dedication and belief”
“If What You Are Doing Isn't Working, Try Another Way.”
“Free Will Can Never Be Free As Long As It Is Forced To Conform To The Conditions Of Purpose. All Thinking Acts Have Purpose. Therefore, Free Will Is Never Entirely Free.”
“The Thing That Intimidates You The Most Is The Thing You Most Secretly Desire.”
“Every Act Of Hostility Is A Plea For LOve.”
“whirlpools in life are must to blend it to the perfection”
“When in a relationship, a real man doesn't make his woman jealous of others, he makes others jealous of his woman.”
“Life makes no apologies as it changes without warning; embrace the roller coaster ride and how alive it makes you feel.”
“A woman's best curve is her smile, her best makeup is her confidence, and her most expensive garment is class.”
“Treat the rough times of your life like sandpaper, work at it enough and it will smooth out.”
“Sometimes the best place to think is the last place you think of.”
“Only ask questions that you want answers to.”
“The only thing we agree on is our love for each other, but I would rather have that than nothing at all.”
“Skill is just a way to influence luck in your favor more often.”
“Luck is influenced more by you than by nature.”
“Prescription anti-depressant manufactures and the whole pharmaceutical industry earn big money for a reason. There are a lot of depressed people in America. Naturally curing depression will heal communities everywhere.”
“Insanity- trying to make sense of everything In this world. Sanity-working on your craft, and understanding it.”
“He who wants to safeguard His liberty, needs not only to shield His own, but He must shield His enemy's. For He who intrudes on His enemy's liberties, becomes equivalent to the one He escaped from.”
“On the outside a man looks different...Go to His heart and you will find a mirror.”
“Life is like a boxing match: if you can't win by knockout, win by decision.”
“Your worth is no greater than your actions.”
“When people are exposed to the possibilities, even for the briefest of moments, paradigms can shift in powerful ways. It's hard to keep an eagle willfully land bound once it knows flight is a possibility.”
“I'm not weird, I'm limited edition!”
“It’s easy to say one that I understand
But when situation flips
No one understands!”
“Just like waves in the ocean come and go, no challenge is permanent. Problems will come and go too. We must enjoy the Challenges just like we enjoy the Waves.-RVM”
“Kindly, print the line below on hard paper,
“May be it can’t hold the weight of my words!””
“In love and heartbreak I find courage, compassion and strength in character; I am forever changed and I love you for that.”
“Life is about living the songs others only sing”
“The probability of failure will never detour my search for true love.”
“Love reigns over all, including money, power, disease and death; love lives after all things die.”
“Pain may create Misery, Pain may give you Sorrow. It may trouble you Today, but will be gone Tomorrow. Pain has its Ways; it surely comes but never Stays.-RVM”
“Life Doesn't Offer Emergency Exit Plans As Buildings Do !”
“Who created rules? Humans. Guess what? I'm a human being, too. I can make my own rules, and be happy in my own way”
“All the flowers of all the tomorrows are in the seeds of today.”
“If you have a roof over your head, clothes on you back, and food in your mouth. Please don't tell me whats going on with you. Because if you do, I'll have something else to add on to what I don't have going on.”
“There is no limit for what you can wish for. Only God has the resources and we are only steward of his belongings.”
““Sadly mistakes are the greatest decisions we make, If we choose to learn from them.””
“Want to meet the most amazing person in the world, look at the mirror and say hi”
“I'm smarter than you AND I can beat you up”
“It has been said that "variety" is the Spice of life. I intend to go through my life with "heartburn."”
“Be the model of inspiration to others that you desire and seek for yourself.”
“I want to do something well; I need to do something great”
“Success without trials is like an ocean without water, it doesn’t exist.”
“Perfection today, invites change tomorrow.”
“Be in tune with nature,be extravagant in your thinking.”
“Consistency is what makes great people greater, and not what they say about themselves”
“Life is not a puzzle we are meant to solve; we can only respect its complexity and piece it together as best we can.”
“I know I can’t see, smell, hear and touch all people, but I love them all the same.”
“When the Sun comes up a Lion awakens he knows that he must outrun the slowest Gazelle or he will starve. When the Sun comes up a Gazelle also awakens, he knows that he must outrun the fastest Lion or he will be eaten. So in the end, it does not matter whether you are a Lion or a Gazelle, when the Sun comes up, you better be running!”
“A character is mortal but a characteristic is immortal...”
“The extent of your success is limited only by your ability to act upon your dreams.”
“I am only one, but still I am one. I cannot do
everything, but still I can do something; and
that's why, I will do whatever needs done...
in order to empower as many like me as
possible, to help change the world, and build
a better tomorrow.”
“I appreciate intellect and intellectual capacity as much as anybody. But I also know if you have a combination of a lively intellect and levels of experience, you're going to be better suited to make decisions, whether you're head of scouting, player development or a general manager.”
“Today you are You, that is truer than true. There is no one alive who is Youer than You.”
“A girl doesn't need anyone who doesn't need her.”
“Tear down them walls with your blood, sweat and tears; there is no freedom without sacrifice.”
“Do not waste precious time fearing the indefinite day of death; rather, embrace this very moment and rejoice each beautiful gift of breath.”
“Love can make a summer fly, or a night seem like a lifetime.”
“You will always be bigger than me, louder than me, stronger than me, and more powerful than me, but there is one thing you cannot beat. Because I refuse to believe that you are better than me.”
“DEPENDENCY BREEDS HOSTILITY”
“THINGS EXIST BY THE CIRCUMSTANCES AND MANNER IN WHICH THEY FUNCTION IN SYSTEMS.”
“The motivator of motivation is a power_ which is love.”
“NO ACT CAN BE COMMITTED WITHOUT FEELING AND PURPOSE”
“So many a time, motivation makes us so excited, so filled, so optimistic, so inspired and so heavy that we can't do anything.”
“BE ACTIVISTIC, OPTIMISTIC, ENTHUSIASTIC, AND JUST TO GET YOUR RIGHTS FROM THE COMMUNITY, SOCIETY, EVEN FROM THE WORLD.”
“Love is beautiful, similar to the chorus of a song; don’t bore us, get to the chorus.”
“You must be present in the present to make it a present.-RVM”
“Motivation is like a match; you need ignite it yourself to use.”
“It really makes me smile when i put a smile on someone's face.”
“If you have nothing good to say while i'm here. Have nothing good to say when i'm gone”
“The past is practice.”
“Love is addicting, similar to the chorus of a song; don’t bore us, get to the chorus.”
“Believe in yourself, take action, persevere and always desire success more than you fear failure.”
“prayer is the gymnasium of my soul;and through iam fit to do all things.”
“clothe ypurself with compassion,kindness,humility,gentleness and patience colossians 3:12”
“I shall rewrite the definition of 'Beauty' or at least make a brazen attempt.”
“ENTITLEMENT PROGRAMS ARE LIKE DRUGS. IT'S A LOT EASIER TO GET A PERSON HOOKED ON THEM THAN IT IS TO GET THEM OFF.”
“THE DECISIONS YOU MAKE ARE WHO YOU ARE.”
“NO MATTER HOW YOU WISH TO SPIN IT, THE DECISIONS WE MAKE ARE ALWAYS ULTIMATELY ABOUT US.”
“Walking by yourself in the forest, sitting on the bank of a lake, sailing the ocean alone, sitting on a hillside observing nature, or flying unaccompanied in a balloon over untouched land. These are what I refer to as ‘Self Preservation’ moments we all need to gather and filter our thoughts, thus enabling us to organize our lives mentally, without the outside distractions from others. In order to bring tranquility into your everyday life you must first find peace within yourself.”
“Let us all hope for the very best to come out of today,for inside it are many great potentials.”
“Pain mends broken hearts by forcing into action the unwanted change that heals.”
“Don't just Hurry, don't just Haste. Don't just Worry, don't just Waste. Life is a Treasure, Enjoy the Pleasure.-RVM”
“Life's Irony;"We can't continually think lack & then live a lackless life.”
“Behind every Ego too proud to follow, beats a heart too scared to lead.”
“Scholars, Enlightened ones, and Learned men, this I say to you. Rejoice in your persecution. For only the ignorant,and feeble minded are left to live in peace.”
“Its the simplicity in human desires and a little of happiness but not in abundance will start the charm in your life”
“There are times I have no idea where I'm going. But my shoes always say were going somewhere very special.”
“Life's Irony;If nobody ever believes in you,then create a company that will believe in you.”
“Our positive affirmations automatically makes our world positive even inside chaos.”
“There can be no Positive result from a Negative attitude. Think Positive. Live Positive.-RVM”
“Happiness is not something ready made. It comes from your own actions.”
“It is very important to generate a good attitude, a good heart, as much as possible. From this, happiness in both the short term and the long term for both yourself and others will come.”
“We can never obtain peace in the outer world until we make peace with ourselves.”
“It's a bet - the more you Give, the more you will Get.-RVM”
“Don't always listen to your heart, because its just a blood pumping muscle. Always follow your mind if you want to be perfect and unstoppable.”
“By the time your children see the sacrifices you made for them, the fight you fought for them and all the support you gave, they will be parents themselves”
“Do not despise death; accept it knowing that nature calls on all things to come to an end.”
“Do not fear death, for it is natural; but, fear the unnatural act of not living the dream.”
“Fear, not living the dream; do not fear death.”
“You know what's wrong with people? They live by the "have to" attitude; instead of "want to".”
“Your life is merely what your thoughts and actions make it.”
“The road to majority leads to poverty.”
“Waste not one more moment thinking about what you want to be; be it.”
“Using all 5 senses is the key to achieving success.”
“Look forward, learn from the past and live for every moment.”
“Your jealousy will consume you, your anger will destroy you but your love will save you.”
“Stay with me flagons, comfort me with apples: for I am sick of love”
“Life's Irony;It is only the living that can boast of tomorrow,but the dead can only boast of yesterday.”
“Plant a positive change today motivated by love and only love and you will experience a beautiful blossom of your labors tomorrow.”
“Your actions define you.”
“A visible dream will become invisible if not acted upon.”
“Don't wait for miracles, you are the one who can change the world.”
“IT'S THE QUALITY OF THE CHALLENGE AND THE POSSIBILITY OF ITS FAILURE THAT GIVES SUCCESS ITS VALUE.”
“IF YOU BELIEVE IN GOD, AND WHEN YOU DIE THERE IS NO GOD, NO HARM IS DONE. HOWEVER, IF YOU DON'T BELIEVE IN GOD AND DIE, AND DISCOVER THERE IS A GOD, YOU'RE IN BIG TROUBLE.”
“I believe in a dream that’s better than today. I will pursue this dream until it appears in its entirety, and then I will dream another dream that’s better, and so on...”
“Appreciate and reject the negativity.”
“It's too easy to quit, follow your dreams!”
“Destiny is not about what other people DO to us. It is about our attitude in determining our own responses to life.”
“If you wouldn’t kick down your customer’s door and start spitting sales facts in his face in person, then don’t do it with your emails.”
“Stress can be a good thing or a bad thing. Only the strong can turn it around and make it oppress to oneself and conquer there in.
The question is are you strong? Or will you be devoured by stress because you're weak?”
“Nothing worthwhile gets done without conflict.”
“Do not apologize for greatness, achieve it.”
“What separates us from each other is our will to win.”
“Stop expecting fairness. Life isn't a fairy tale.”
“Focus on your future and fight to fulfill it.”
“Challenge tomorrow’s destiny with today’s action.”
“Instead of working smarter than harder, do both.”
“Think and speak. Think and act. Before you do anything, just Think!”
“Calculate success by the number of times you keep trying.”
“You can't change the world without polarizing the people you run into.”
“Jealousy is the price mediocrity pays to excellence.”
“Most of us want our circumstances to improve, yet few of us are willing to do much about changing them.”
“Spend the time you worry about what other people think about you, proving them wrong.”
“I don’t care about you. I care about me. Care about me too.”
“Fighting always leads to winning! If you disagree, you've probably stopped fighting.”
“Have a Blast; Life won’t last! Make the Best of Today, before it is gone!-RVM”
“If you quit today you never get to see your success tomorrow.”
“It’s not the resources you have but how resourceful you are.”
“To lead others you must first lead yourself.”
“To love others you must first love yourself.”
“Success is not about where you are right now, but where you are headed.”
“To find true purpose, pursue life with passion.”
“Stupid people spend time defending themselves instead of fighting for their goals.”
“When opportunities knock, you must be prepared...and don't forget to answer the door!”
“People get angry when you try to debunk their perception of reality.”
“Don’t worry about getting it wrong as long as you are willing to keep trying.”
“The harder you play, the tougher you need to be.”
“Nothing changes until people get passionate about a cause.”
“Successful start-ups have one really differentiating quality — the art of trying harder.”
“Push yourself into the scary position where success is the only possibility.”
“A win is a win is a win is a win.”
“Words of inspiration is a life changing situation that reforms the
fullest hope of a persons ability”
“Attitude, after all, is what keeps you going.”
“your life will never make sense until God is in it, accept him as your personal savior and you will have the strength to be content in all you go through.”
“Pettiness is the suicide-bomber of healthy morale.”
“Lucky ones understand that real and honest happiness lies in those moments, they are truly thankful for.”
“Every rejection is a step closer to realizing success.”
“The last straw didn’t break the camel’s back. The camel allowed his back to be broken by not shrugging off the straws that others kept piling up.”
“We may be a product of our environment, but we can chose our mental neighborhood.”
“Your brain is a belief factory. Ultimately you decide what gets designed, produced, and shipped out to the world.”
“If everything happens for a reason that means you made the right choice even when it's the wrong choice.”
“Change is coming--position yourself.”
“Courage means there’s a cost.”
“many of us have to go through the process where God is molding, shaping and preparing us to be used for his glory, the journey to get there may be hard and at times we suffer for a while but imagine when it all over and he say “well done”,”
“Wherever you go, whatever situation you are in, wherever you are. Do not worry, you will never be alone.”
“Success comes from within.”
“Every failure is a success, there is always a lesson to be learned within failure.”
“The only thing that overrides destiny is a souls sense of certainty!”
“Time is a factor for what I'm after.”
“As you appreciate the the wealth you already have,it's value further appreciates.”
“Doing nothing will get you nothing or a lot of what you don't want...”
“We may lose — and certainly the odds are not in our favor — but we will fight!”
“The battlefield of business is not for the faint-of-heart. Stay at home if you don’t want to be shot at.”
“It is only when we allow ourselves to dream of impossibilities that we can muster the human courage to attain a limitless destiny.”
“We fight because we need to know if we can.”
“Why kill me before I die?”
“There is nothing that can not be achieved and there is no one who can not achieve.”
“It has come to my attention that SUCCESS comes with sacrifice, afar great sacrifice..."THINGS I LOVE" i loose so as to succeed else where.”
“Plan to be weak and you will make yourself stronger.”
“Every decision you make goes to the result of what you allow yourself to achieve.”
“Nothing is free in life. Not respect. Not vision. Not passion for your purpose. It takes soul.”
“Effort is the only factor in life that is solely within our own control.”
“The choice to persevere in spite of overwhelming obstacles is the single biggest factor in achieving success.”
“How can we make someone else listen, if we aren't aware of the sound of our own voice?”
“Winning matters.”
“You stop logic, derail ideas, and sidetrack plans; but passion is undeterred.”
“Nothing is more powerful than the will of man to rise above himself to achieve greatness.”
“The resolve to try again is a powerful differentiator between those who are successful and those are not.”
“‘We’ are the great differentiator. As far as ‘we’ can push ourselves is as far as ‘we’ will ever go to realizing our goals.”
“Believing that within you is the ability to change the world is the first step in making a difference.”
“We all evaluate our own self-value. The difference is what we see as valuable.”
“A simple way to be grateful is to close your eyes for a minute and think of those who never got a chance to open them.-RVM”
“Why do we feel like we need to trend toward mediocrity so that we fit in with the crowd?”
“A great demo is like a stand-up act. There is a smooth opening where you try to get the ‘crowd’ to like you, the quick dazzle that keeps everyone interested for the long haul, and the act itself (where every word and phrasing is pre-planned).”
“Bad judgment is like hypothermia — your body and mind want to go to sleep, but you'll end up dead if you allow yourself to succumb to the emotion of that moment.”
“Love doesn't hurt or manipulate, people do.”
“No one cares about your vision like you.”
“While we make our living based solely on our performance, we rarely take the time to improve our performance.”
“Just because you cover your eyes with your ‘life’ doesn’t mean that reality has suddenly disappeared.”
“In order to have something out of life you must first have a sweet tooth.”
“Bondage is the opposite of relationship and trust is the key! If trust is impossible, you're already free.”
“The ability to discern the point at which opinions graduate to facts is a monad of wisdom!”
“Until you believe that you are all you need to be amazing, you probably won’t find yourself accomplishing outrageously enviable success.”
“Caring is the difference between the struggle for survival or the the passionate pursuit of excellence.”
“Create your own ‘self-inertia’ by replacing worry with action.”
“Misery may love company, but competition makes the company better.”
“Inspiration is the one thing you lose just after you stop looking for it.”
“The mistake that people often make is the belief that the opposite of love is hate, when it is in fact indifference. The only feeling that competes with the strength of love, is hate. Both are the most potent emotions at two ends of the spectrum of human feeling. Yet, at the same time, the line is so faint, it's often hard to distinguish the difference. Indifference is having not one ounce of feeling; the ability to say ' i don't care, it doesn't enter my thoughts'”
“Life is the sum total of our involvement in it with our ourselves.”
“We each have the power to be better and better those around us.”
“You can take a gut punch and hit the mat or keep moving.”
“Obsession is your way of knowing you will win before you even start the contest.”
“Relationships revolve around perspective: your’s and their’s.”
“Winners create a fanfare that arouses action, intensifies urgency, and capture the mind and motivation of a buyer.”
“To be the square sales peg, start with your title. It’s the first thing people want to know about you.”
“If you felt my heart you would notice that it never stops beating, regardless if it feels yours or not”
“Don’t believe everything you don’t hear.”
“Success is not a ‘sometime’ thing. It is a philosophy, a habit, a way of life.”
“Surround yourself with a lifestyle of being true to your goals.”
“If my past brought solace to your now. Then my past wasn't about me, it was all about you.”
“Success means making your long-term goals part of today’s problems.”
“Happiness is the meaning and the purpose of life, the whole aim and end of human existence”
“To change your mentality,change your environment.”
“In life what you ASPIRE will TRANSPIRE—be it Loss or Gain, Sun or Rain, Joy or Pain.-RVM”
“All human actions have one or more of these seven causes: chance, nature, compulsions, habit, reason, passion and desire.”
“There is beauty in the likeness of silence.”
“Moral excellence comes about as a result of habit. We become just by doing just acts, temperate by doing temperate acts, brave by doing brave acts.”
“There is always a way for the person who always thinks there is a way.”
“The universe is blessed with plenty unharvested resources,but until we open our eyes & minds & courage room,we shall not be able to harvest them.”
“In any moment of decision, the best thing you can do is the right thing, the next best thing is the wrong thing, and the worst thing you can do is nothing”
“Do what you can, with what you have, where you are.”
“Replace your guilty feelings with what is real and start taking responsibility for the situation. rip Shawn Mayes”
“When I do good, I feel good. When I do bad, I feel bad. That's my religion.”
“True knowledge is meant to be shared selflessly; if it is kept within it is no longer called knowledge.”
“Sorrow comes to all...Perfect relief is not possible, except with time. You cannot now realize that you will ever feel better and yet you are sure to be happy again.”
“Even Satan looked his noblest lying in his tomb”
“I am not bound to win, but I am bound to be true. I am not bound to succeed, but I am bound to live by the light that I have. I must stand with anybody that stands right, and stand with him while he is right, and part with him when he goes wrong.”
“Nothing can stop the man with the right mental attitude from achieving his goal; nothing on earth can help the man with the wrong mental attitude.”
“Don't let past mistakes dictate your future, believe and never give up on the present”
“Your life isn't a mistake because God made you. And God doesn't make mistakes.”
“I never considered a difference of opinion in politics, in religion, in philosophy, as cause for withdrawing from a friend.”
“The price we accept does not so much as even whisper our worth”
“Knowing what you want is the tipping point for finding success.”
“An obsession with success is not about hoping in what you can achieve, but rather in exercising a personal forcefulness toward your higher calling.”
“The sooner you fail, the more time you have to start succeeding.”
“You need to manage carefully what you measure while carefully understanding that you can’t measure what you do not manage.”
“You can’t really appreciate the joy of winning, until you’ve failed along the way.”
“I will never forget the things I remember.”
“It is always what it's not.”
“If you see things as it is, You will never know what it is - SRK”
“You never start losing until you stop fighting.”
“Consider being more humble than aggressive when it comes to obstacles trying to detour your success; because being humble can be the most aggressive move that allows you think how that obstacle got there in the first place.”
“Never forget those who let you lean on them.”
“Sometimes what looks like brilliance is really guts.”
“You can't really get used to getting hit, but you can learn how to stand on your feet and wobble with class.”
“Anybody can wine and dine, but it takes courage to truly Shine.-RVM”
“Your most unhappy customers are your greatest source of learning.”
“I don't know' has become 'I don't know yet.”
“Technology is just a tool. In terms of getting the kids working together and motivating them, the teacher is the most important.”
“Try to maintain a positive mindset, there is power in positive thinking, no matter what you face, try to stay positive,”
“I consider my morals a blessing and even though the unmoral try to manipulate them into a curse. I fear nothing from a man with their eyes set on my end. My only fear is when my resurrection begins!”
“Birds fly in the sky without the fear of fall. We too must have the COURAGE to take Risks and grow tall.-RVM”
“Always forgive your enemies - nothing annoys them so much.”
“In life if you want to be taken seriously,you must be serious with your undertakings.”
“L'homme oriente sa voile, appuie sur le gouvernail, avançant contre le vent par la force même du vent.”
“On met longtemps à devenir jeune.”
“Vivre comme tout le monde, c'est ennuyeux; vivre autrement, c'est difficile.”
“We are more often frightened than hurt; and we suffer more from imagination than from reality.”
“Courage leads to heaven; fear to death”
“If one does not know to which port one is sailing, no wind is favorable.”
“There is no great genius without some touch of madness.”
“When a man refuses to adhere to the chastisement of his maker, he becomes vulnerable to the woes of the world”
“Luck never made a man wise.”
“To wish to progress is the largest part of progress.”
“Life itself is simple...it's just not easy.”
“The situation you cannot control; controls you”
“Doing what successful people were able to do is great! But being able to do what successful people weren’t able to do is the challenge !”
“"The moment one give close attention to anything, even a blade of grass, it becomes a mysterious, awesome, indescribably magnificent world in itself.”
“As we grow older together, As we continue to change with age, There is one thing that will never change. . . I will always keep falling in love with you.”
“The world only knows those that have the word in them”
“Learning is a Part of Life & You Can Not Move Your Feet Away From It”
“Sometimes you need to put lotion on your own feet.”
“The question is, what are you doing to continually rekindle the passion of your life? What kind of inspiration are you providing for yourself that will keep you pursuing your dream? And if that passion dies, who's to blame?”
“Our philosophies, ideology and education are clearly useless if they fail to impact life positively.”
“The only thing in this world that is instant is coffee. Everything else is going to take a little work and effort. Life is too short to just exist. Do something! The only person that's stopping you from reaching your goals is YOU!”
“Worry ends where faith begins. Make today the best day of your life. Don't let yesterday use up too much of today. And make today something to smile about tomorrow.”
“The love I feel for you is beyond the stars in the sky, beyond the waves in the sea, beyond the real love humanity gives, it's a love that's out of sight, a love that's invisible to the naked eye, a love so powerful it's only felt threw the sweet kisses and the powerful touch I feel when it's given by you my love, only true love would feel that, and that's why I'm thankful I found it with you, I love You”
“The shittiest part of life is having to deal with people.”
“The sting, the bubbles, the mist, the crash, the gracefulness, its all a part of paddling back out and doing it over again.”
“With Inspiration, Liberation and Determination, you can reach any Destination.-RVM”
“The mist.. the salt.. the rush.. the sound.. ripping through the waves gets me aroused.”
“Friendship and Family values are lost when Religion,Politics,or one Track minded individual are on a path to constantly change your state of mind.”
“It isn't that she's hotter, or prettier, it's just that you don't know true beauty when you see it.”
“Black tears running from my eyes.. I keep trying to tell myself you weren't worth my time..”
“It's fragile and broken, help me fix it, handle it with care, take my heart, just don't tear it apart.”
“I thought about everything then I tried to think a little bit more. I thought a little bit more until I thought about nothing. When I thought about nothing I had to think about the most beautiful thought that could be; a thought that everything could never think about.”
“Being a bystander to suffering is not an option.”
“If you were called away from life tomorrow, would you leave without regret? Live Life today with no regrets.”
“Better to be happy without love, than love without happiness.”
“Don’t Freeze! Surrender to the Breeze like the Trees!-RVM”
“Tomorrow is nothing, if you’re living in the past.”
“Dreams for tomorrow become yesterday's memories so dream well.”
“Time is so precious and delicate; respect it and its limited presence. Honor it and appreciate its existence, for when it’s gone, it’s gone forever.”
“When “I hope” changes to “I know” then it is not a matter of hope, it is a matter of time.”
“There is no 'do' without a 'try'.”
“Everyone Who Believes In Something Or Acts In Some Way Feels Justified In Some Manner. When You Condemn That Person, Claiming They Are Ignorant And Not Justified, Then You Are Showing Ignorance Of Their Justification.”
“Man Is The Cruelist And Most Compassionate Creature This Planet Has Ever Had On It.”
“If your actions inspire others to make a difference, encourage their dreams.”
“We become genuine Leaders when we live genuinely with Integrity”
“One day, while sitting and watching shadows play; I caught a glimpse from the corner of my eye...of something both wilder and more familiar still...slipped out of my mind's eye, and into my will.”
“The more I learn, the more I realize I don't know.”
“Some of us can finds fear in darkness some of us finds peace some of us fear the light some of us finds peace in the light”
“...beauty is life when life unveils her holy face. But you are life and you are the veil. Beauty is eternity gazing at itself in a mirror, but you are eternity and you are the mirror.”
“Your daily life is your temple and your religion. Whenever you enter into it take with you your all.”
“LIFE is what you make it...color a bigger picture & you will get more out of it.”
“Hard-work is a talent because everyone can't work hard”
“Enter each day with a new challenge to your comfort zone; contentment kills conquest, but dissatisfaction breeds conquerors.”
“Those who always think of their aches can never do what it takes!-RVM”
“Being a jerk doesn't make you a better business person. It just makes you a jerk.”
“The forever and a day is an illusion to the man from whence no spirit is known. For he knows not where he derived from, and he knows not where he shall go.”
“Real love feels real, even in the face of adversity.”
“Undeserved Criticism Is A Hidden Compliment.”
“Don't wake up seeking happiness, Wake up happy seeking success.”
“I trust my intuition more than anything, it directs me towards the truth.”
“Just because they said you can’t doesn’t mean you never will.”
“It's never wrong to treat someone else right. Even when they don't deserve it.”
“Time is infinite, we can make it infinite, but infinite could be the wrong term or it might not what we expect it to be”
“Success lies in the belief in yourself.”
“The only thing that interferes with my learning is my education.”
“We gain strength, and courage, and confidence by each experience in which we really stop to look fear in the face... we must do that which we think we cannot.”
“Every day is a new beginning.”
“If you let anyone tie your Wings with Strings, you can never Fly in the Sky...Your Independence, Your Freedom is Your Biggest Gift.-RVM”
“I don’t accept the answer NO to a question, when I know I can accept the answer YES, to that same question.”
“Knowledge doesn't come with age, it comes with time you spent on a subject.”
“Betrayal and Defeat is what makes you stronger for the next battle.”
“Head up, Stay strong. Fake smile, Move on.”
“Everything I say, I say to one another...
and everything I know, I know it from another...
The tears I cry, I cry for another
...
The love I feel, I feel for one another
All I have is a name,
that I have from another. We all can't without each other!!! (inspiration: Herman van Veen - Alles wat ik heb)”
“The world lies outside your home.”
“Always remember, you are so SPECIAL and so LOVED ♥”
“You may look at a rainbow and wonder if there really is a pot of gold at the end of it.. know that YOU are the rainbow and the pot of gold is inside YOU”
“You may look at a rainbow and wonder if there really is a pot of gold at the end of it.. know that YOU are the rainbow and the pot of gold is inside YOU”
“It is no coincidence that when we take our last breath, our Spirit leaves our body. Your breath is your connection to Source, breathe deeply and fill yourself with your own light ♥”
“It is no coincidence that when we take our last breath, our Spirit leaves our body. Your breath is your connection to Source, breathe deeply and fill yourself with your own light ♥”
“Demotivation is indirect form of motivation for those who are strong!!!”
“When you are inspired, you are InSpirit”
“When you are inspired, you are InSpirit”
“Ask the Angels to help you, everyday, for everything - they are always there, you just need to remember to ask!”
“Ask the Angels to help you, everyday, for everything - they are always there, you just need to remember to ask!”
“Our children are our own little angels, nurture them, love them, believe in how special and important they are. They are our teachers, instead of trying to teach them, listen, learn and remember how we are all Love”
“Our children are our own little angels, nurture them, love them, believe in how special and important they are. They are our teachers, instead of trying to teach them, listen, learn and remember how we are all Love”
“The world is my church. My actions are my prayer. My behavior is my creed.”
“Treat the people you love like you want to be loved.”
“Sometimes it takes bravery to admit that you're afraid”
“If you can't convince them, confuse them.”
“Embrace the scars that the harrowing adventures of life may bring. They are superb attributes to building distinct wonderful character and contribute to the chiseling of a beautiful sculpture, which are the very embodiments to the amazing person you are and who you will become.”
“Want to keep Christ in Christmas? Feed the hungry, clothe the naked, forgive the guilty, welcome the unwanted, care for the ill, love your enemies, and do unto others as you would have done unto you.”
“All Anger Stems From Feeling Hurt.”
“The More A Person Is Effected By You, Good Or Bad, The More Significance You Have In Their Life.”
“The Power That Others Have To Affect You Is Only The Power You Give Them.”
“Nobody cares if you can't dance well. Just get up and dance.”
“Birds Fly in the Sky, because they were never taught to Cry!-RVM”
“If you can't hold on, let go. Try to stand, but know you can fall. If you can't find the laughter, discover the pain. Cry, then dry your eyes...because this is the road to paradise.”
“You never know strength until you discover weakness, and that is when you find out that the capacity of will overpowers the burden of failure.”
“RVM's Thought for the Day-"Why call yourself a King when you don't have the Freedom to do anything!"”
“Finished is better than best.”
“Dissolve all your pain so you can absorb some happiness waiting…”
“Disappointment doesn’t mean its end of everything it’s a signal that it wasn’t meant for you and there is something else waiting ahead for you..”
“I'm not open to many people. I'm usually quiet and not so friendly with my all knowns. So if I like you enough to show you the real me, you must be very special.”
“Make good decisions today; your day will ultimately end up where you steer it to go.”
“Don't be in a position, you don't want to be in”
“ideas are not inventions.....executing the ideas,are inventions..!!”
“It's known that God doesn't give us more than we can bear. He gives us enough to bear witness !”
“you realize that you're part of the smelliest slums, people (sometimes the ones you cant run away from) waiting for a seamless spot to be the 'dog'..go ahead and be the 'perfect' barking slum-dog.. and before you know it.. ill be the millionaire...”
“Friendship multiples the good of life and divides the evil.”
“If the only tool u have is a HAMMER(confidence) then everything what u see looks like a NAIL..(achievable)”
“The universe & I are one & alike,for abundance controls our DNA.”
“When You Reward Bad Behavior Followed By Good Behavior, What You Get Is More Bad Behavior Followed By Good Behavior.”
“Challenges are the doors to success and failure is only part of the journey.”
“When asked "how are you", I say I am as good as any better than many and getting better everyday”
“Life is like a chocolate bar, dark but you can always enjoy it...”
“Come live with me and be my love, and we will some new pleasures prove, of golden sands, and crystal beaches, with silken lines and silver hooks.”
“The feeling that you have a lot of time to live but you don't know how to live with it.”
“For every person in your life who inspires, supports and encourages you, there will be a person who will TRY to discourage you, criticize and gossip about you and rejoice in what they see as your failures. YOU NEED TO THANK THESE PEOPLE, they are rejoicing not at your failure, it's actually at your success because each failure brings you one step closer. When they rejoice no matter the reason, their energy changes towards you, to positivity.”
“Sometimes you need to feel the pain first before you realize your mistakes.”
“If you think that you'll never catch a break, then you’ll rarely ever find one…”
“If you think you just can’t make it, you probably won’t.”
“The process of turning dreams into reality sometimes becomes a long tough grind; it will take all of your drive and persistence to see it through. The key is: See it through.”
“It doesn’t matter how you get there; just get there.”
“The Three Keys to Happiness is something to do, something to love and something to hope for.”
“Don't let anyone's negativity, drama, ignorance or disbelief stop you from what you want, that is just like letting them live rent free in your head.”
“In Politics, There Is No Substitute For A Mature, Well Informed Public.”
“To Be who you want to Be ‑ Don't Wonder… Just Surrender! -RVM”
“You need to name it in order to change it.”
“A Dependent Society Is A Society Of Ingrates.”
“Each decision alters the path we travel.”
“A man can no more diminish God's glory by refusing to worship Him than a lunatic can put out the sun by scribbling the word, 'darkness' on the walls of his cell.”
“You can NEVER go back and start over; you can only make new decisions.”
“The saying "nobody has done it before" does not mean it cannot be done,but it simply means nobody's beliefs has breached that arena.”
“Always in love with mistakes, never in a rush to get it right. I'd rather get something right because it became a part of me.”
“Everyday we are growing up, but some people think there will be a special day and year where they just grow from their current state.”
“A resolution is a promise to start something that you intend to finish; be strong and carry out this promise.”
“Looking To Your Past With One Eye And Looking To Your Future With The Other Eye Will Make You Crossed Eyed. STAY FOCUSED On Your FUTURE And You Will See Great Things!”
“Make sure the path you’re on is the right path, or you’re going to end up in the wrong place.”
“Love is like wind to a sail, you won’t get anywhere without it; abandon ship, if you are not in the midst of love.”
“Decisions, without action, are merely dead-ends.”
“Fewer temptations lead to fewer mistakes.”
“What Mostly Separates Us From A Rock Is Our Ability To Give Our Life, Our Thoughts And Our Feelings A Sense Of Purpose.”
“The manifestations of the subconscious being can only be activated by those that have embraced courage & faith.”
“From the flow within does one’s outer life take its shape.
The stronger the current the more significant the change.”
“Being right doesn’t make us safe…or happy. It is more fulfilling to aim for authenticity and transparency.”
“If everyone knew they made a difference, what a difference we could make.”
“Grace is always waiting in the wings to rush forward on our behalf.”
“Keep your Eyes on your Vision, and your Vision will find You.”
“I am not always correct about what I am certain.”
“All your experiences, and more importantly your responses to them, determine who you are today.”
“Be aware of your behaviour, before you judge the behaviour of others.”
“Choose love, release fear. Choose love, release fear. Choose love, release fear over and over again until only love remains. Then you and I will know True Freedom.”
“In forgiving, say: I forgive you. I forgive me. I ask that you forgive yourself, and I ask that you forgive me. I release you and set us free.”
“The reason many do not allow change in their life is because they fear the unknown. Get bold! Follow your fear. Fall in love with the fear of the unknown. Let it exhilarate you into new places!”
“Have patience. A person does the best they can, otherwise they would do better.”
“It is crucial, in our evolution, to think for ourselves and to question authority. In this practice, be bold, be brave, while also being cognizant of the consequences.”
“First do for yourself what you ask of others.”
“It takes courage to practice compassion, and emotional intelligence to practice empathy. Both are key to healing oneself.”
“Some live Life strictly, following each and every rule rigidly. They go by the Book and get stuck by the Hook. Break free today, let conscience guide your way.-RVM”
“Our conscious evolution ensues as we begin to remove the layers we hide behind.”
“Please don't shoot the Buddha! What is he/she/it teaching you today?”
“Have patience. In times of indecision and confusion, certainty is often just one insight away.”
“At the very core of every human being is the deep need to both love and be loved. Remember this in all words and deeds.”
“The antithesis of love is Fear, not anger. At the core of all persistent or long-term emotional suffering is fear. Heal your fear, and you will be free.”
“Your future and your past are being created in this very moment. Now that's power. What are you choosing to create?”
“The Universe is always, Always, ALWAYS conspiring on your behalf and for your highest good.”
“When all is said and done, by what are we measured? By the body of choices we have made through today, and the wake that is left behind by those choices.”
“Happiness is being at peace with what is. It is trusting that your past was, your present is, and your future will be in absolute service to your positive evolution.”
“The need for control is most often an attempt to create feelings of trust and safety. Let go and honor your true needs.”
“When you work right, so does everything else.”
“You will know you have fully forgiven when you forget that you forgave.”
“Always remember that people will always paint a picture for you to see. There are two types of pictures that a person can draw. A picture of lies & a picture of truth. It's very important that you look and pay attention to the actions of the one who is painting so you will always know the difference.”
“Realize when you are being used & mistreated
Don't be blinded by lies ,
Scared to leave so you stick around so you won't have to grieve.
T.B”
“Remember if you are not in the kitchen cooking the meal they will change the menu and you will be the main ingredient in the stew of oppression.”
“I woke up today ready to challenge and conquer a new phase in my life; watch me.”
“There's No Greater Compliment Than The Unwarranted Criticism Of An Adversary.”
“When You Feel Guilty About Something It Is Because You Actually Own The Thoughts And Feelings That You Feel Guilty About.”
“If You Don't Like The Culture You're In, Then Either Change The Culture You're In... Or Change Cultures”
“If You're Not Proud Of Your History,Stop Spending Your Thoughts About It, And Spend Your Efforts To Build A Proudful Future.”
“Sacrifice all to a mission larger than oneself; there you will find true love.”
“The world would have been a better place if people could stop putting so much focus on Satan and channel that into trying to learn more about God and His Love. So much emphasis on what’s evil makes you forget what you stand for.”
“A man, by his own words is self-advocate”
“Tell your future, work your present, remember your past.”
“You may drown yourself in a whirlpool of bitterness … Or you may surf on a tidal wave of forgiveness”
“Time is the engineer of our lives.”
“I'm sorry no matter how hard you try in life your going to encounter someone who's suck switch has been broken off in the on position.”
“You can never have an opinion on anything unless you know everything about what your opinion is on.”
“With open eyes, I see the reality, with closed eyes, I see the virtuality.”
“Letting go means to hold something new.”
“After each night follows a day, even if it's ever so long.”
“Life is like a car, constantly running out of gas.”
“Awaken the sleep, protect the weak, and guide the strong”
“Use Your Successes To Improve Your Confidence; Use Your Failures To Improve Your Understanding Of What Is Needed To Improve Your Confidence”
“Be Cautious Of What You Say And Do. Once Said Or Done, You Can't Take It Back.”
“Perception Is Almost Always Greater Than Reality.”
“The only thing you need to believe in, is yourself.”
“Set your ambitions high, always reaching for the stars; big dreams, grant big rewards.”
“Peace and strength through balance.”
“Peace and strength through balance.”
“Find balance and find yourself...you are worth it.”
“Sure most of us are 'happy'. Happy when we're shopping or drinking in the pub. Try being happy for just being alive, for once….”
“Find balance and find yourself...you are worth it.”
“To change our life, we need to fight the demon we affectionately call our comfort zone.”
“Creativity, love and nature are all fuel for the soul.”
“Creativity, love and nature are all fuel for the soul.”
“I have found that I am happiest when I am being creative...letting source/my gifts/whatever you want to call it come through. It is one of the few times when I know I am doing exactly what it is I am supposed to be doing and I can get out of my head and just be at total peace.”
“Men and women are different, right? Then get your own space and enjoy each others"”
“I have found that I am happiest when I am being creative...letting source/my gifts/whatever you want to call it come through. It is one of the few times when I know I am doing exactly what it is I am supposed to be doing and I can get out of my head and just be at total peace.”
“No matter how difficult life is, you always have the ability to change your life for the better. The secret is to believe you can do it.”
“Be the first in your group of friends to be the 'accomplished one'. Be the example on how to create the life one dreams of by being the first to do so.”
“Remember when the challenge arrives that your allies are ALREADY there to support you.”
“Create with ABANDON like the great Mother Earth - have no attachments to the results - just enjoy the process!”
“Music is the only language we all have in common and we can equally understand.”
“A Dios y vaya con Dios....”
“its the past that holds you back from your future, and in the present its the memories that dont want you to move on.”
“Be not a slave of your emotion but a master through empowering expression.”
“Inspiration to me are those who could take me beyond the dogma of mortal existence and precept me to live in eternity's sunrise.”
“Don't underestimate the power of getting outside!”
“Don't underestimate the power of getting outside!”
“Don't underestimate the power of getting outside!”
“Plan for perfection, expect humility, take a deep breath, begin again.”
“ I would like to give people from my country(Sudan)encouragement and appreciate that I'm still alive. I'm one of the LostBoys, but I've created my own world in running”
“Stillness is the key that unlocks the door to new worlds and higher planes of existence.”
“Do not let complacency settle into your life, it will ruin your physical and mental well-being.”
“Being normal in today's society feels as if one is stripping you of your clothes; its a horrible feeling.I may be a bit eccentric and spontaneous in the way I approach life but it feels better than being naked,instead, I'm the one wearing clothes and the people around me are naked... its a horrible feeling”
“The devil in you may play a game, but never let him win!”
“The power to overcome the temporal frustrations of the moment is by learning to switch your mind's chanel to your dream world.”
“Life is full of wonders, all you need is a magic wand to put the right spells”
“The best thing in the world is to be yourself, than pretend to be someone else”
“Life is like marriage you will get eventually.”
“Life is about secrets,hence the power to know the secret behind that which you endeavor to succeed at, is to diligently search for the secret.”
“On your quest to spirituality it is often required to suspend your rationality; but true spirituality asks that you enhance your rationality.”
“We are not interested in the possibilities of defeat. They do not exist.”
“There are not enough days in forever to allow me to fully express the depth of my love for you.”
“Today is no more than tomorrow's yesterday”
“My only wish for you today is that you take a baby step towards your dream; make it real.”
“I think that the basic problem we have as humans- is that somehow - we believe - that we made ourselves”
“A dream puts us in an unfathomable tunnel which offers no resistance.”
“The solution to life's major problems lies inside our beliefs.”
“Knowing that you’re happy makes me happy; make me happy.”
“Inspiration leads to determination.”
“1. The saddest thing in life_________ is to answer this question!
........................2. The happiest thing in life________is to have no clue to the first one!”
“Life is a game.
Learn the strategy and thou shall win”
“It's always sunny above the clouds.”
“Your hands hold your future, guide them to your dreams”
“Follow your heart onto the battlefield, and have the courage to lay down your life if need be; there is no greater leader on this Earth. Devotedly pursue this mission, and you shall be rewarded the riches of your true love.”
“Maybe one day you'll realize how much you really loved me
But by then, the one who really loved me already let me know”
“Music is an Art as Building and Creating Technology is also an Art... All revolves around precision, logic, talent and creation. (Henry M Bueno)”
“We, is the key.”
“Thank you for taking my breath away.”
“Surrender all to your heart, only then will you see true beauty and find the truth.”
“Come from heaven, born on earth, gone to hell.”
“Never tell a woman that she is beautiful, she might think you were a pretty little liar.”
“It is easy to say: "I love you" to somebody, but it is more difficult to really mean it.”
“It is easier to protect your feet with slippers than to carpet the whole of the earth.”
“The eyes of hope are gratefull eyes. Before our eyes learned to look gratefully at the world, we expected to find beauty in good looking things. But grateful eyes expect the surprise of finding beauty in all things.”
“Don't lose your temper til it's time to lose your temper.”
“The only true wisdom lives far from mankind, out in the great loneliness, and it can only be reached through suffering. Privation and suffering alone can open the mind of a man to all that is hidden to others.”
“The saving grace of God makes me perfect. The saving of myself makes me in-perfect. I choose to be perfect in Gods saving grace.”
“The more you break the csocietal rules, the more you are in the direction of finding your own personal fantasy”
“We all blindly walk through the thick fog of belief, hoping to reach the clear field of satisfaction. But sometimes, we fall all the cliff of disappointment and into a sea of despair.”
“Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from it, for I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden light. Matthew 11:28-30”
“Some people Live before they die, but many are Dead even as they Live.-RVM”
“A new idea is delicate. It can be killed by a sneer or a yawn; it can be stabbed to death by a joke or worried to death by a frown on the right person's brow.”
“Expect everything, I always say, and the unexpected never happens.”
“If not for our struggles, we wouldn’t find truth, strength and love.”
“Nothing is as beautiful as loving someone so deeply that either you die in that ocean of love or you learn how to swim.”
“The only thing you can do easily is be wrong, and that's hardly worth the effort”
“Being childish is the best thing that could happen to a researcher!”
“It's bad enough wasting time without killing it.”
“A day well spent is one which starts with aspiration and ends with inspiration.”
“Expectations is the place you must always go to before you get to where you're going.”
“Life is Good, but its never going to be Fair. So be prepared for it.”
“Triumph: Is the victory of will over desire”
“The way to this man's heart is not through his stomach--It's through his family.”
“Be the REALITY of your DREAMS… be the LIVING PROOF that REGARDLESS of the SETBACKS, OBSTACLES, or EMOTIONAL ROLLER COASTERS, ETC. in the end you will OVERCOME. Let NO ONE take your JOY, PASSION,or VISION from you.”
“The only difference between Albert Einstein and me is that it's my turn to make history.”
“I’m so thankful to you, for coming to my rescue; when I saw you I knew, you’d make my dreams come true.”
“I wonder if bad food and drink can initiate tooth decay, whether bad company and bad social behavior can cause mind decay...”
“A true friend is like precious treasure, hard to find and to priceless to let go.”
“A new day simply means a period to renew your hope & re-energize your dreams.”
“God never leaves us. However, sometimes we know that we are not where we should be. Being out of position can be costly!”
“Obstacles throughout the way of life will occur. Beat them.”
“Being normal is another way of saying that you're not living up to your true potential.”
“Until you heal your past, your life patterns and relationships will continue to be the same, it's just the faces that change.”
“The student ponders moving to another state... "No matter where I go I can be happy." The master replies, "Then be happy here."”
“All things I’ve ever wanted to say suddenly I’ve been bold enough to say them on Social Media.”
“I promise to share your air, breathe your breath with flair, love you always I swear, you are my answered prayer.”
“About 5 years ago I made my life about helping others. Once I did that my own life expanded and brought abundance, joy, success, and more blessings than I can count. Who are you helping today?”
“In The Vast Majority Of Cases Where People Have Money Problems, It Isn't The Lack Of Money That's The Problem; It's The Lack Of The Ability Or Willingness To Discipline Their Spending Habits That's The Problem.”
“Pretend to be happy and eventually you will believe that you are.”
“The opposite of love is not hate, it is indifference. The opposite of hate is wisdom.”
“I am a success not despite of the hurdles on my path, but because of them.”
“A rich man who has been given everything he has is no more successful than a poor man who begs for change.”
“The eyes are windows to the soul, the heart is translated through the mind, and the body is the perfect interpretation.”
“Live for yourself but love for everyone else.”
“It isn't the smartest, strongest or best looking that succeed. It is the most tenacious. Never give up.”
“It isn't what you do, it's why you do it that counts.”
“I'd rather you hate me for who I am than love me for who I'm not.”
“You say life doesn't give you opportunities, you are breathing aren't you? That is your opportunity. Now what are you going to do with it?”
“Swim against the current, it will make you stronger and take you places most people will never go.”
“If you believed in yourself as much as you believe in God prayer would be unnecessary.”
“I never freeze, because I am colder than the weather.”
“Words don't hurt, unless you're hit in the head by a book.”
“Power is a weapon used by who has already killed themselves.”
“Sometimes it takes a lowly, title-less man to humble the world. Kings, rulers, CEOs, judges, doctors, pastors, they are already expected to be greater and wiser.”
“There's no need to curse God if you're an ugly duckling. He chooses those strong enough to endure it so that they can guide others who've felt the same.”
“To be heroic is to be courageous enough to die for something; to be inspirational is to be crazy enough to live a little.”
“Show me a man whose ultimate goal is wealth and power and I will show you a very lonely man.”
“Stand for something your heart whole heartedly believes in; be a soldier in life.”
“If you don't like the Fruits you are growing, then change the Seeds you are sowing.-RVM”
“ONE POINT: To kill or be killed”
“I never knew destiny, until I met you.”
“Never say never because you never know”
“It’s only when you know different comes the responsibility to be different.”
“Barriers not only define our self imposed limitations, they also define our self worth and the value we place upon our own happiness.”
“New ideas can only grow in an open and fertile mind; a mind that is closed can’t recognise anything outside of itself and is oblivious to its own ignorance.”
“Knowledge is always found in the ashes of the past, and history dictates our future.”
“Life is like a ship in the ocean, Success is like a destination where the ship has to reach. Don't be in a hurry to reach the destination, you may drown yourself.”
“Impossible is next to possible”
“We grow up with our thinking, not with our knowledge.”
“I love to love you.”
“Talking down to people is not uplifting.”
“Do what makes you feel like you belong. Be with whoever fills that void and makes you seem like no one else and nothing else matters when your with them !
.
.
.
.
By ~ Happy Fbi”
“To re-double your potentials,go to where you are celebrated.”
“Life's obstacles and challenges of yesterday were nothing but opportunities preparing us for today. Tomorrow will be the result of our response to the challenge today!”
“Abilities of successful and unsuccessful people is not much different. Determination and desire to learn from mistakes makes the difference”
“A testing director at MGM wrote a note to Fred Astaire after his first screen test,
"Can't act. Can't sing. Slightly bald. Can dance a little." After becoming a singing and dancing sensation, he kept the note as a reminder of his journey. Let where you came from open your mind to the path of possibilities of where you could go.”
“The famous comedian Jerry Seinfeld froze and was booed off stage at his first show at a comedy club. Believing he had what it took, he still went back the next night,
blew them away and the rest is history. Keep coming back for more until you get what you need.”
“Stephen King was rejected 30 times before he finally gave up on getting his first book Carrie published. His wife refused to let him quit, dug the book out of the trash and convinced him to try again. He became one of the best selling authors of all time, with over 100 titles. Find people who believe in you, even when you don’t.”
“It one takes one act of kindness to make a difference in the world.”
“Sometimes knowing what you won’t do will get you there faster.”
“Don’t let set backs hold you back.”
“Let where you came from open your mind to the path of possibilities of where you could go.”
“Don't let small minds convince you that you can't achieve great things”
“Find people who believe in you, even when you don’t.”
“You don’t always have to know where you’re going to get where you want to be.”
“Every day should be spent being in service to someone for something.”
“Trying a new approach to an old problem can change everything.”
“It’s easy to stay on track, If you choose to never quit.”
“Their are no such things as failure just reasons to pouch harder”
“Don't let other people’s interpretations of you ever define you.”
“It is usually darkest before dawn & also when persecution increases to it's peak,it just shows it is fighting it's very last battle.”
“Taking risks includes doing something that’s already been done, better than it’s ever been done before.”
“Indignation can be a catalyst for innovation.”
“If you don’t like the role you play in your life, write a new script.”
“The Supreme Law - Conform to Love.”
“Oh pitiful man!For the universe he is residing in experiences no lack,but man experiences many lacks,because their is lack in our thinking.”
“Be proud on what you have done.it gives us better felling.”
“A man who has re-aquired his focus is on a crash course with the whole world.....stay outta my way or roll with me....This is my path”
“The only thing worst than lying to somebody else, is lying to yourself.”
“Love has no beauty in black or white, It's only the grey color that has any beauty to it..”
“Do the right thing the right way for the right reasons. Dedicate yourself to personal growth and self-improvement. Be an empowermentalist.”
“Time has gone by without notice, only because I've been on cloud 9”
“We are the lock on the chest of life's mysteries, but we are also the key.”
“View one as a brother; in time all others could be the hunted.”
“You don't have to wait until the morning to declare it's a brand new day.”
“You don't have to wait until you get to the top of the mountain to enjoy the view.”
“Keep moving forward, step by step.”
“Be generous. Give someone your smile. It may be the only smile they receive all day.”
“When I fear the challenges of the present, it's a signal I have forgotten the miracles of the past.”
“Like a sunflower, always turn toward the Light.”
“There is no shortage of sunlight. Even in the darkest hours, somewhere on earth the sun is shining. Have faith and look in the direction of the Light.”
“When you listen to your heart and recognize what it is you really want, only then can you find the courage to ask for it.”
“Be gentle with yourself. Change takes time.”
“You can begin wherever you are. Right now.”
“Get your tools out and start building your dreams.”
“Good fortune will knock on your door, if you believe it can happen to you.”
“Keep your mind on what supports your wellbeing. Focus on what nurtures you, on what gives you strength.”
“Each and every one of us comes to this world as a unique creation with something special to bring to the world -- including you. Be gentle with your heart and with the hearts of others.”
“Do something today, no matter how great or small, to put a little more Love in the world.”
“There can never be too much Love in your life or in the world.”
“Be kind to yourself. Treat your heart with tenderness. Speak gently, with Love.”
“The best way to honor someone's memory is to live your life to the very fullest.”
“If you are doing nothing about it, it will do something about you.”
“Cling to the loving hand of God and you'll be okay.”
“Life is a delicate balance of pain and joy, fear and faith, anger and love, confusion and intuition, misunderstanding and clarity, suspicion and trust, grief and ecstasy, and so many other complex emotions. Let us move through this day respecting and loving all of who we are, all of what we feel, and staying open to all that life brings.”
“When you hold onto something because you're afraid to let it go, there's no way for something better to enter your life. Whether it's a situation, an object or an idea, if it doesn't support your wellbeing, release it.”
“Some people live such boring lives; it’s Black & White, so dead! I choose to color my life with Fun, some Blue, some Green, some Red.-RV”
“Don't ever cling to anything out of fear. Cherish what has true meaning in your life -- let go of the rest.”
“It's your song. Sing it.”
“Don't let worry, doubt and fear distract you from what's really important.”
“The heart knows when the mind is blank.”
“Today I can enjoy the beauty in something without having to own it.”
“People don't make History, History makes History, yo. People test people.”
“A woman's spirit should be celebrated in colour.”
“The most precious and valuable art, is the priceless art of love.”
“The more I connect with the self within the easier it gets for me to connect with the the world outside.”
“The more I connect with the self within, the easier it gets for me to connect with the world outside.”
““If you care too much about what other people would think of you, then you will never think of, or achieve anything worthwhile enough, for people to care about. Fight yourself free. Stop caring about the wrong things.””
“When telling a story be imaginative. Show some creativity, originality and inventiveness.”
“Ones worth is no greater than ones gift.”
“The bible is the most read book in the world, bit it is the lessons of sin and evil which we practice the most.”
“Life's a joy, then you die, what a bitch!”
“We have all been created good. We have, however, developed bad inclinations such as anger, greed, dishonesty, envy, lust etc.”
“Courage to give out what is in your heart, is the true personality of who you are”
“If the whole world got liquidized and placed in a broken vase... everything might leak out but our love!”
“Prefer the afterlife is better than this one.
Never let this life is better than next one.
- Buddha”
“The cost of change is sometimes high, but the cost of not changing is usually higher. Consider the cost before embarking on either journey.”
“Above all skills the most necessary quality needed is passion. To wear passion on your sleeve and give it off as enthusiasm is an art known as inspiration.”
“What the caterpillar calls the end the rest of the world calls a butterfly.”
“TO BE UNSTOPPABLE YOU GOTTA DO THE WORK TO MAKE THE EASY ANSWER YES !.. IN A WORD U-Ga-Wanna !”
“The Sun, the Moon, the Stars, the Birds, the Animals, the Flowers, are all proof that a Universal Power exists.-RVM”
“Shadow gives light its meaning.”
“If you don't test the waters-how do you know where it is safe to swim?”
“Whether your glass be half empty or whether your glass be half full we all will drink to survive.”
“The untapped riches of our inside is so unlimited that it is an embarrassment for our outside to be poor.”
“Giving up doesn't always mean your weak. Sometimes it means your strong enough to let it go.”
“I find the best way to love someone is not to change them, but instead, help them reveal the greatest version of themselves.”
“The greatest love stories are not those in which love is only spoken, but those in which it is acted upon.”
“No matter what happens or what you go through im here for you i always will be.No one will keep me from you my love.”
“Everyone has a purpose in life... Discovering our purpose always comes after fulfilling it!”
“Every amazing achiever gets told they can't do something. Winners use that disbelief to drive outrageous results.”
“Every amazing achiever gets told they can't do something. Winners use that disbelief to drive outrageous results.”
“There are people who Dream and there are people who Scream. There are people who Cry and there are people who Fly. The good news is that this is a CHOICE!-RVM”
“You're only down-and-out if you're still lying on the floor. Get up.”
“Loss of inspiration weakness of mind”
“If life were easier you wouldn't be happier.”
“The greatest illusion of this world is the illusion of separation. Things you think are separate and different are actually one and the same.”
“Even when you're not smiling, those privileged enough to have witnessed it when it was visible, will see it when they think of you, therefore you are always smiling in somebodies mind.”
“My most important meeting is at the end of the day when I lay my head down, close my eyes and enter into dream world; when I wake up, I start Living The Dream.”
“You make me see colors I never knew existed, my face hurt from smiling and my heart skip beats; you make me happy.”
“Death is the end of life sentence.”
“My words is my Inspiration”
“In humanity, each individual's story was written well before time. It cannot be manipulated, it cannot be changed, edited or altered. It plays out page after page, day after day as time passes. It will always have a beginning and always have an end. Never without a purpose.”
“If ignorance is bliss then let me live and die miserable.”
“Being yourself keeps you in your comfort zone, in a state of stagnation. Condemned to a life of quiet desperation, dreaming of what could have been. Be your better SELF”
“Each day is a gift, each moment is a blessing, each person is a wonder, and YOU are all of these: a gift, a blessing and a wonder...”
“Each day is a gift, each moment is a blessing, each person is a wonder, and YOU are all of these: a gift, a blessing and a wonder...”
“We fail not because we are inferior. We fail because our dreams are superior. Because we expect more than the ordinary and venture boldy into the unknown to bend the world to our destiny. Failure is reason to celebrate. We are alive.”
“Making money can give you a sense of achievement. But only Making a Difference will give you a sense of Fulfillment.-RVM”
“Laugh and shake your head at your mistakes and embarrassing moments, then be grateful for the opportunity to learn something new.”
“Life will shake you up and knock you down, but its up to you whether you choose to get back up or stay on the ground.”
“Don't lose sight of today to focus on tomorrow.”
“If you have dreamt it, haven’t you already been there once? Go there again.”
“I'm on this earth to do what I wan't to do, to do what makes me happy and makes my existance meaningful; why the hell would I listen to you about what I'm supposed to do with my life?”
“The crowd can dilute your presence, not your existence.”
“Outer beauty is a temporary gift; inner beauty last beyond death.”
“No one can stop you from being amazing faster than you.”
“No one can stop you from being amazing faster than you.”
“Never stop moving towards where you want to be.”
“Never stop moving towards where you want to be.”
“Success isn't about what you are willing to do. It's about what you actually end up doing.”
“Success isn't about what you are willing to do. It's about what you actually end up doing.”
“"Be grateful for those who inspire us to use our talents God has given us, to the best of our ability." ~ Tom Baker”
“BELIEVE that even in the darkest of dusk, light will always shine through no matter how small it may seem.”
“The strength that God gives you is everlasting strength; it's just up to you on how well you use it."”
“Dare to live your dream for dreams are meant to push you up
To a tower that stands sublime to look the sun in its eye
and touch the clouds that lines the sky”
“Life shared is life enriched.”
“Learn to view the world through someone’s eye to understand that life is all about perception and to teach his own.”
“"Keepers of light become a source of light, energy, and truth. One who shares their loving kindness with others, a true inspiration to those they come in contact with. Being the type of example others will want to emulate and do likewise." ~ Tom Baker”
“Faith is the key that will unlock your dreams.”
“I knew I was in-love the moment selfish left my body; this occurred the instant you came into my life.”
“Some people want it to happen, some wish it would happen, others make it happen.”
“I can accept failure, but I can't accept not trying.”
“My heroes are and were my parents. I can't see having anyone else as my heroes.”
“Life beyond your comfort zone is SO rewarding! I think if more people knew that they would actually get what they wanted in life if they just operated outside their comfort zone, more people would be living a much happier life!”
“Every Accomplishment Starts with a Decision AND Taking Action!”
“A great man is one who recognizes his own weaknesses and observes other's strength.”
“One can have beliefs without action,but faith is incomplete & miserable without action.”
“Confused by the mind and diffused by the senses, we seek Pleasure and lose the great Treasure called Life.-RVM”
“The willpower to hold onto the impossible stems from self denial embellished in your mind from the start of time replacing the acceptance of failure and that it truly is ok to fail understanding there are two moments in life today and tomorrow.”
“Taking simple, yet specific materials, and tying them into something intentional...then presenting that particular item to a trout, triggering the natural instinct in that fish to engage in a strike, is exhilarating...”
“Life is like writing without an eraser. But the good thing is, you can always write "I'm sorry," and then write a new chapter, a new page, a new beginning...”
“As a scientist, my glass is always 100% full: with water and air”
“When we change the world, we try to change future events, time lines, outcomes or even sources of evil. Even if we do not succeed, but we manage to change ourselves, we still change the world.”
“The Best Way To Get Someone Else To Accept Your Idea Is To Convince Them That They Played An Important Part In Creating The Idea.”
“The future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams.”
“I try to do the things that give me butterflies in my stomach before I do them, it lets me know that I'm stepping outside of my comfort zone.”
“You don't have to dream about a person to love them, if you truly love them they are always on your mind.....”
“If you want to torture someone, make them feel guilty. If you've made someone feel guilty, then you've tortured yourself.”
“What you see depends on what you're looking for. What you are looking for depends on what you see.”
“Mother's love is way too dangerous. It makes us believe, getting loved by someone is easy.”
“If People Treated Their Baby The Same As Their Business Most People Would Go To Prison For Neglect!!!”
“Lets not live life based on truths, but on the possibility that those truths can be changed”
“Do not be influenced by peer pressure, wealth nor reputation; do, because your heart tells you to do so.”
“A strong nation, like a strong person, can afford to be gentle...”
“Just because you call it "business" doesn't mean it's not personal. It always is.”
“Just because you call it "business" doesn't mean it's not personal. It always is.”
“Everyone thinks you should be honest until you tell the truth about them.”
“Everyone thinks you should be honest until you tell the truth about them.”
“Wimps whine.”
“If you believe in your heart you are this away, because of your any ways, and other folk that's the way. Then you will remain a product of all of your ways, and everyone else ways.”
“homeworks do not make life complicated, life itself is already complicated.”
“The happiest excitement in life is to be convinced that one is fighting.”
“knowledge is when you learn something new everyday, wisdom is when you let something go everyday”
“The creation of Physics is the shared heritage of all mankind. East and west, North and South have equally participated in it. In the Holy Book of Islam, Allah says:
"Thou seest not, in the creation of the All-merciful any imperfection, Return thy gaze, seest thou any fissure. Then Return thy gaze, again and again. Thy gaze, Comes back to thee dazzled, aweary."”
“I would rather be a speck of sand than a brick in the wall.”
“We let go of those who surrender, because they no longer care to win”
“Life begins with attitude. That's why we're called human beings; not human doings.”
“Yesterday can no longer hear you,tomorrow will not hear you either,but today is your obedient servant & it is ready To do all that you command.”
“Don’t Change so people will like You. Be Yourself... The Best You... And The Right People Will Love The Real You...”
“Dont ever let anyobody throw you away. You are not junk. When God looks at you, He sees things that everybody else ignores. You are worth so much that it took Jesus to Calvary to salvage and reclaim you. You are a seed of greatness.. Wake up sleeping giant”
“Your eagerness to be loved by anoyone reflects your lacking inabilities of self worth and self righteousness”
“True pride stems in failure.”
“Time fly’s when you’re Living The Dream.”
“The Destroyers of Civilizations are 3; Nature, Wars and Degenerate minds.”
“Being a hero doesn't mean doing something worth notice, it means doing something so unnoticeable that no one else will attempt it”
“If you care too much about what other people might think of you, then you will never think of, or achieve anything worthwhile enough, for anyone to care about. So stop caring about the wrong things, and just do what matters to you now.”
“If you care too much about what other people might think of you, then you will never think of, or achieve anything worthwhile enough, for anyone to care about. So stop caring about the wrong things, set yourself free, and just do what matters to you now.”
“You May Eventually Develop A State Where People Don't Believe In God, But You Will Never Develop A State Where Reason And Wisdom Take The Place Of God.”
“Change has a considerable psychological impact on the human mind. To the fearful it is threatening because it means that things may get worse. To the hopeful it is encouraging because things may get better. To the confident it is inspiring because the challenge exists to make things better.”
“My principles are the responsibility.”
“'Ask' are the second thing to do after the 'Search'.”
“You eat or you starve.”
“Some people asked me that how can you love India because you are a Muslim !
I tell them ….. My heart , soul and mind may belongs to ISLAM but My birth belongs to INDIA.
I proud to be a MUSLIM and I proud to be an INDIAN.”
“What Better Compliment Is There Than The Unnecesary Criticism Of Your Enemy.”
“A person bored with life has never tried anything new.”
“Nobody is empty unless we ignorantly refuse to identify the talents we are filled with.”
“In a way, a computer is like the Holy Bible. It is super powerful and contains lots of useful data. Its downfall is its limited to the idiot using it.”
“Greatness is not found in possessions, power, position, or prestige. It is discovered in goodness, humility, service, and character.”
“Something that you can not do is your weakness, and something that you can do is your strength.”
“I will love the light for it shows me the way, yet I will endure the darkness because it shows me the stars.”
“Your breath is my air, no other eyes can compare, one kiss takes me there, you’re my Angel I swear.”
“Don't depend on other's opinion, respect it and understand the situations instead,someday you will just realize how unique are we.”
“Im making my own history, so if you're willing to make your own , you would be better prepare yourself to pursue an attack to the future.”
“If you find yourself saying 'But I'm just being honest', chances are you've just been unkind. Honesty doesn't heal. Empathy does.”
“If you find yourself saying 'But I'm just being honest', chances are you've just been unkind. Honesty doesn't heal. Empathy does.”
“The philosophy of the rich makes them richer & the philosophy of the poor makes them poorer.”
“There are no business problems, management problems, leadership problems, or profit problems. There are only people problems.”
“We don't need more leaders. We need more motivators.”
“We don't need more leaders. We need more motivators.”
“All the answers are already there, waiting for us to inspire them to come out...”
“All the answers are already there, waiting for us to inspire them to come out...”
“Let not our differences overcome our greatest good.”
“A life of destiny is not defined by individual victories and failures, it is determined by our faithfulness to walk the journey set before us to the end.”
“Any time you hear the word impossible,it simply means,there is a possibility if only we can think deeper.”
“Embody joy, fear not sorrow, embrace that, which you hate and your soul will be empowered. The affect will be a beautiful melody that no one can silence.”
“If you hold on to something is bc you don't want lose it, yet I learned that you have to let it go when you the only one holding it. A relationship is something where both hold on to each other and work hard to keep it together bc they both know if is broken both will be hurt. Now if you the only one holding on.. Let it go before it takes the best of you..Before it makes you too weak to move on... Before is to late to stop a broken heart. Before is to late to let it go... Let it go”
“Start a chain: help somebody help somebody else.”
“Apply the all healing balm called imagination to any problem & the problem will simply dissolve into oblivion”
“Government Doesn't Need More Of Your Money, It Needs Less Of Itself”
“The best way to Appreciate your job, is to remember yourself without one!”
“Never underestimate the difference YOU can make in the lives of others. Step forward, reach out and help. This week reach to someone that might need a lift”
“You can never subjugate a people as long as they have a resolve for independence, no matter how much defeat you inflict on them.”
“Always Remember to take your Vitamins: Take your Vitamin A for ACTION, Vitamin B for Belief, Vitamin C for Confidence ,Vitamin D for Discipline, Vitamin E for Enthusiasm!”
“No matter how many people believe or don’t believe in you, you must be the ultimate believer in yourself!”
“Stop searching the world for treasure, the real treasure is in yourself”
“God is like air. We inhale and exhale it and it surrounds us at all times. We can't see it but we can feel it.”
“Regardless of Sunshine or Rain, Be Thankful for another GREAT day…and treat Life as the ULTIMATE Gift...Because IT IS :)”
“There’s a Chinese proverb that says “Wisdom is avoiding all thoughts that weaken you & embracing those that strengthen you” Your mind is like a Ferrari (Or your favorite car) it is Awesome!...but if you put sand on the gas tank it won’t run. Don’t put sand (negativity) on your mind. Think positive, encouraging, uplifting thoughts, & the negative will soon evaporate”
“The World population has passed 7 billion & guess what? By the year 2112 99.9% of those people will be gone (many sooner than that) & there is no way to get around that fact…Whatever your time in this world might be, it’s an opportunity. An opportunity to grow,2 learn,2 change,2 create,2 enjoy. TODAY you are alive .Today you ARE Lucky. We ain’t gonna be here forever so climb that Mountain, See those Pyramids, travel to an exotic country, Go Skydiving,finish that project and/or?”
“I'm still growing I take each day, one day-at-a-time. I'm always thinking and dreaming. As long as this heart keeps beating, there will be new colors coming along. I hope what I do has an art to it, and as an artist you have to try a new portrait, not knowing what the outcome will be.”
“I dont have a plan B. Because that will only distract me from achieving my plan A. - Robin Sharmin”
“The words you choose determines the altitude you cruise.”
“You Make Who You Are, Not Your Ancestors.”
“Any good idea without action is just another idea in your head. Take action or you will never know the magnitude of what you could create!. ~ Edward Squire”
“Any good idea without action is just another idea in your head. Take action or you will never know the magnitude of what you could create!. ~ Edward Squire”
“Far Too Often, We See Insanity Disguised As Humanity”
“you can not fight for your future if you continue to fight with your past”
“Live, breathe and die with a smile on your face.”
“The best reason to go forward is knowing you can't go back.”
“Man will always question his place in the world. I believe Jesus holds his answer.”
“Religion is hard. Relationship is easy. He's waiting.”
“My crazy neighbors are all becoming Christians, and boy are we upset......that it didn't happen sooner.”
“We should strive to be more like Jesus and less like ourselves.”
“The earth had two children; A son named Adam and a daughter”
“Always believe and give second chances with respect to trust,faith an forgiveness.”
“Your reluctance will bring about change”
“If Perception Is The Problem In A Situation, Then Proper Advertising Is The Answer To The Problem”
“Dear 2 Cent Droppers. Your words can never Amount to any type of Disaster and would never hurt because your brain is Stupid. What you should do is Save your words for Emergencies When they actually matter, no?...of course not.”
“Deny selfishness. Decry cruelty. Deliver delightfulness.”
“Deny selfishness. Decry cruelty. Deliver delightfulness.”
“The fastest way to get hurt is to look back while running forward.”
“The fastest way to get hurt is to look back while running forward.”
“You can never aim too high. You can never fight too hard.”
“Woe unto you that fears to dream,for if you continue in this trend your destiny will not fully manifest in this life.”
“Be a soldier; sacrifice your blood, sweat and tears for love.”
“Most people's problem is they have a brain but don't use it, the problem with big brained people is they don't just use it, they abuse it.”
“Always Be Ready For Anything that Comes: Bananas, Chips, College, an Opportunity, so when it does you are prepared... duh?”
“Just because you're dressed down does not mean your customer service has to be.”
“Good character supersedes fame, wealth and power; unearth it and you will discover the riches of inner happiness.”
“Don’t treat life as an obligation, seize the opportunity.”
“No one knows' everything really.”
“An external motive can never Inspire you. It will only Motivate you to move, but you will soon stop. Seek Inspiration!-RVM”
“Life is like Indian roads,sometimes up,sometimes down,sometimes rough an sometimes smooth.But if the vehicle of our courage is strong,we can easily get through everything an reach to our destiny.”
“You can pretend with others,but you can't hide from yourself.Be practical and live free.”
“Humans are born, then they die. Thus is it better to not have been born at all?”
“Love, Life, Art, Religion, Poetry- All these things are subjective. Subjective to our own beautiful minds.”
“Don't fall into the trap of
pretending everything's
fine when you know it
isn't.”
“When you feed your mind with a given specie of mango during the day,the mind then goes on auto-pilot searching for other unknown species of mango during the night.”
“Waking up in the morning is telling the world you are ready to face it one more time, and that should be recognized by all.”
“The mediocre will rather not partake in an event if he is certain he may not win,but the great will partake even if he knows he may loose,for he knows that inside every loss is the gain of experience.”
“When it is obvious that the goals cannot be reached, don't adjust the goals, adjust the action steps.”
“The greatest Joy on earth is to truly Love. Discover Love Today. Experience the Bliss & Fulfillment that comes from loving and caring. Love is Magical.-RVM”
“You cant buy true Love and friendship from shop.You have to earn it by your own mind,heart,passion and love.”
“Dont be over-confident.Its just another way of losing gratitude in passion.”
“Dont try to find mistakes in others,accept them as they are.”
“It's The Thoughts In Our Mind That Largely Keep Us Down Or Raise Us Up.”
“if you are afraid of death you are already dead”
“Don't dream what you cannot understand.”
“instead of trying to make your enemy weaker, make yourself stronger”
“Life isn't just ideas or moments when greatness occurs and you thrive. Life is what happens in between. Life is finding yourself for the first time and realizing even bad decisions are accompanied by only the best of friends. You need the whole picture in order to truly live. You need the whole picture to truly grow.”
“We get happy in happiness an sad in sadness,thats obvious.But,the person who smile in pain and face problems happily,he is the real one man army of his life.”
“Our imagination is the only vehicle we can use to travel to the subconscious realm to tap it's abundant resources.”
“ Grant me strength in battle and forgiveness in death!”
“only a handful of people can see in the window of the governments soul!”
“Doing good things won't get you great results. That takes you doing great things.”
“"Chase your dream's until it's not convert into your reality." - Dhruvin Raval”
“True Love is the relation between two pure loving souls. If they tied with the strong bond of trust and faith its impossible for death too to make them apart.”
“If You've Succeeded In Every Endeauver In Life You Either Haven't Done Much Or You Set The Bar Too Low”
“When You Mourn, You're Not Really Mourning The Loss Of The Person, You're Mourning The Loss Of What You Thought You're Life Was Going To Be With That Person.”
“Glory in your small dreams,because inside them something bigger may emerge.”
“Why join the navy if you can be a pirate?”
“Suffering arises when we are married to our own thoughts.”
“If you are identifying Self with things obtained or desired, you will never Be enough.”
“Gratitude arises when we let go of expectations.”
“Don't worry much about the after-life, Just like you don't worry about your before-Life. Worry (and be grateful) about THIS life. This one DOES count”
“My whole life is NOW.”
“It's Often More Important To 'Let Go' Of Something Than It Is TO Effect Something.”
“My awerness is my forgiveness.”
“"We love not where we are loved but we are loved not where we love.”
“Demanding Someone's Apology Is Actually Demanding Their Submission, Not Their Sorrow.”
“If Intelligence, Education, Experience, Proper Accessment Of One's Abilities And Direction Don't Provide You With The Success You Seek, Then Mix It With Determination And A Pinch Of Reality”
“I command my Being until only the Divine surfaces.”
“The path to perfection is a lonely one...”
“The heart demands no words.”
“The More One Delves Into Matters Of Truth The More Elusive It Becomes.”
“Love is a gift; cherish, honor and protect it.”
“Societies Use Laws And Rules To Disguise The Universal Law That States: 'Might Makes Right'. No Matter What Their Justification, They'll Make You Comply Because They Can.”
“Never be afraid to be loud, be afraid to have no voice. Never be afraid of the thoughts of others be afraid of not being true to who you are. Your own style makes you who you are don't adopt someone else's your not.”
“Jesus' suffering has no self-pity, or anger nor it's masochistic.
It's a dignified way of enduring pain.
Imagine Jesus shouting to his persecutors. "Bring it on! Nothing and nobody can stop me!"”
“Do not taint that which is pure.”
“Any great athlete knows that in order to be successful they must first master awareness and control of the body. Mental endurance follows the same principle.”
“We are Sailing on same water with different Boats”
“"Keep a guts to tell the truth on face never talk at anyones back" ♥
"be simple be calm... Never gave anyone a chance to make a harm"..♥ ♥”
“Take delight in your small dreams,knowing fully well that behind every small dream is a bigger dream.”
“The Ego will taint everything but the Heart will overcome.”
“The positives of the future outweigh the negatives of the past.”
“When we shift perception to appreciation, we begin to take our power away from the mind and into consciousness, where love is waiting.”
“If we can believe & think positively,our today's negative tales,shall become tomorrow's testimony time.”
“The desire for agreement from others is a subtle form of fear, and this runs counter to who you really are.”
“The resources in the thinking realm are largely untapped,because we humans have conspired never to embark in the art of thinking.”
“When you mind is made up, there's no point trying to change it, but YOU still have a choice.”
“Sometimes you have to learn to look all of the critics in the eye and simply say, I like me.”
“In life it is good to aspire for more,but better still be contented with your present state.”
“Free yourself from the constant state of seriousness.”
“If YOU want to do something and your mind says do it, then do so. If YOU want to do something and your mind says don't, then do so.”
“If you want to understand the behaviors of others, you must first know thyself.”
“The more you buy into thoughts about your identity, the more you cut yourself off from who you really are.”
“Inspiration exists, but it has to find us working.”
“You have the right to achieve your dreams and no one can take that away from you. However, YOU are the only one who can exercise that right.”
“Never say "I don't have." When someone demands financial assistance from you & you know you have,because if you do,you will be sowing lack into your life,but rather say,"I have,but I have some commitments.”
“With mindful awareness, YOU are not your thoughts unless YOU choose them.”
“Life's Irony;Some of the negative comments we make about ourselves like,"no money" even when money is overflowing,will eventually manifest itself if not now,maybe within a generation.”
“The More You Try To Control Others The More You Are Controlled By The Burden Of Trying To Control Others.”
“How is what you are thinking contributing to what you are feeling?”
“Be Ye Not So Arrognant In Your Uniqueness That You Forget That Who You Are Is Mostly What You Have Learned From Others And The Sum Total Of The Genes Of Other People Who Happen To Be Your Ancertors.”
“They don't call you crazy once you've done it. Only while you're talking about it.”
“They don't call you crazy once you've done it. Only while you're talking about it.”
“All things are discoverable and recoverable”
“The solution to your life's issues are closer than you think. It's in you, by you and for you.”
“Hatred eats the soul of the hater not the hated.”
“The Worst Form Of Arrogance Is Deliberate Humility; For It is Pretentious And Deceptive.”
“Who can stop man from rising? if his thoughts have not stopped him.”
“understanding-Please don't tell me how I should think, take that energy to understand why I think what I think.
Bradley alan eakman 4/9/2012 DAY 234 @ OHSU in portland ,oregon”
“Give a Heart, be an Organ Donor. The life you save may be my own. 4/9/2012(day 234 in ohsu after a massive heart attack aug 19, 2011)”
“Fortune rewards the patient and persevering.”
“Nature is rapid Design.”
“Out Of Chaos New Rules Are Invented And New Ways Of Thought Are Manufactured”
“Life is your biggest Treasure. Enjoy it. If you forget to, it will soon be gone, never to return.-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“One Of The Most Important Lessons I've Painfully Learned Is That People Are More Interested In Hearing Me Brag About Them Than About Myself.”
“Market forces take no prisoners, only casualties”
“Hate Damages The Soul Of A Person, But Indifference Provides For Its Quiet Detachment.”
“Take time to talk,
but more importantly to listen.
To learn through other’s experience,
we share this human plight.
This existence that enlightens us,
that tries our very souls,
that teaches us,
We are all One.”
“Luminaries play to a darkened sky. Each life is a star in the night’s lullaby.”
“Sometimes your joy is the source of your smile, but sometimes your smile can be the source of your joy.”
“Life's song is sung by many voices. The words written in overlapping verse. The melody it's power,transcending all barriers. Emotion, carried on notes, played by many hands
Each of us carry the words inside. We were born knowing them.”
“The miracle of Life's song is in the song of the child, singing in a small clear voice. The very same refrain which resounds throughout the entire world.Though seldom heard, as it is muted by the noise of everyday life. Listen closely, you can hear it.
Raise your voice, incline your heart. You will find no greater sorrow than by leaving your verse unsung.”
“Help & Help till you die.....”
“No Action Or Statement Is Held In High Esteem Without The Proper Timing.”
“With All The Differences Of Thought Between Humans, What Largely Keeps Us From Killing Each Other Is A Common Need For Love And A Common Fear Of Pain.”
“It Is Only During The Trying Circumstances Of Our Lives That We Reveal Who We Truly Are.”
“"Once we get something we must appreciate it till end..! ♥”
“Contrary To Popular Opinion, Experience Is Not A physical Endeauver; It Is A Mental Endeauver That Expands The Layers Of Viewpoints”
“Sometimes, The Greatest Of Accomplishments Comes At The Most Quiet And Unexpected Of Times. The Key Is To Be Open For It.”
“If you are poor,you've got the right to become rich,so grab that right today.”
“Creating A Victim Mindset Is The Same As Getting Hooked On A Drug.”
“Love is the only sum that multiplies when it is divided, the more you give the more you will receive”
“Every atom has infinite possibilities. That means, since you're made of billions of atoms, you have infinite posibities. You can be what you want to be. You would know you reached a posibility when you're happy... but wait, there's more! That means there are still billion more ways to be happy. Fly, sail and be brave...”
“The wise knows that whatever strength they've got,tribulations contributed the majority.”
“The fledgling courage of a single man may one day be the unexpected father of a million inspirations”
“The fledgling courage of a single man may one day be the unexpected father of a million inspirations”
“Possibly The Most Detrimental Aspect Of Our Existence, Outside Of Sickness And Death, Is That We All Too Often Draw Conclusions About Matters.”
“I Don't Mind Winning The Title Of 'MORON' When I Have Idiots For Judges.”
“There's Only Three People On Earth That I Can Truly Count On When I'm In A Jam; Me, Myself And I.”
“It is never a sin if people think small of us,but it is a big sin if we think small of ourselves.”
“To Give Your Life Color You Should Try To Do Something Everyday To Amaze Yourself.”
“He is a true King who has the Freedom to do anything! -RVM”
“All Judging Is Prejudical In Nature, For We Can Never Know All The Facts And Understand All The Circumstances In A Situation. Judging, However, Allows Us To Act And Think, And, Thus, Allows Us To Survive.”
“Start with what you have & as you trudge along,better tools will mysteriously come your way.”
“Believe in possibilities, believe in magic, believe in miracles, believe in prayer, believe in your God Who believes in you...”
“Believe in possibilities, believe in magic, believe in miracles, believe in prayer, believe in your God Who believes in you...”
“Music has the power to change people; to change hearts, minds, souls... to inspire and lift up. Not many things in life can do that. Music isn't just about what you learn in school...music is an expression of life.”
“Don't just spend all your time praying for riches, because riches comes with mystery. Just pray to be successful in life... SUCCESS IS ALL YOU NEED!”
“On the other side of rain clouds, shines the sun.”
“Shared joys make a friend, not shared sufferings”
“The Two Steps That Must Take Place TO Build The Foundation Of Self-Confidence Is, First, You Must Recognize That You've Done Something Valuable, And, Second, You Must Appreciate It.”
“How much you achieve in Life is not as important as how much you enjoy each moment of Life.-RVM”
“Really intelligent people are clever enough to appear stupid”
“If you want to change people life's, you dont have to be the one who knows everything but you can be the one who starts everything”
“Never think of things what you wouldn't do without thinking”
“POWER OF A HEART YET SO STRONG EITHER HATE OR LOVE AS KINGDOMES THIER RAGE AND ATTRACTION SO BEAUTIFUL THAT THE WORLD BOWS TO THEM.”
“Play every hand that you’re dealt with the desire to win.”
“Idea is the only aerosol that can kill the rodent called poverty.”
“U'll never get anything as you expect unless you generate the unexpected power within you...”
“Whatever life brings, we have the power of reacting to it. How we react is what makes the difference.”
“Always do what you are afraid to do.”
“Stay on the right path in life; your reward will be priceless.”
“You have to walk, before you can help others walk.”
“Just as we've got 7 different days in a week,so also in life man is supposed to birth atleast 7 different dreams.”
“I Used To Think It Would Be Great If Everyone Thought Like Me Until I Began To Realize I Would Be Bored By The Lack Of Challenge.”
“How do you know if you've reached the highest level of communication with the one you love? It's when you realize that you don't need words to understand each other anymore. The union is person to person, heart to heart, spirit to spirit...”
“To ensure a flourishing future, you must be brave enough to walk away from your past, so that you’ll be free to live in your present.”
“No one turns down a one up, not even you.”
“If You're Not Here (pointing to the chest), You're Not There.”
“The poor will say,"I will not attempt,because I don't want to fail,but the rich says,"I will attempt & even if I fail,failure is the foundation of success.”
“Woman can be the key of succes, but can also lead to a path of self destruction”
“Never be angry if another person first achieves a feat,but rather be glad that someone bold enough has finally led the path for the less bolder ones to follow with peace of mind.”
“If you don't defeat the monster called fear,then poverty will have you for lunch.”
“Joining someone you can't beat is also known as a monopoly.”
“Die for your goals. Surely it is better than living without any goal.”
“The Truth will bind wisdom."”
“So what if the experts disagree with you. They might be wrong.”
“Endeavor to put on your best belief robes today to attempt the success opportunities today has in stock.”
“You can spend your time appearing to be right or you can just work to fix what you think is wrong.”
“Commit today to take proven, productive action every day that will catapult you forward on your success journey.”
“Pray for God's will and pray to Him for the knowledge and will to obey. It's not our job to give a list of wishes and/or demands to God, it's put job to ask him to help us understand what He wants from us.”
“Sometimes you have to surrender control and simply trust in faith.”
“When You're Under Duress To Make A Decision, Take A Deep Breath And List All Your Options And Possible Consequences; Then Proceed, Using The Best judgement Available.”
“The only Limit to the Distance we can Travel is our Imagination.”
“I'm me, I like being me, And being me is what makes me, me. There is no one who can relate more to me then me. no one knows how I'm feeling other then me, And if you don't like me, then there's the door because nothing will make me change besides me.
-Elliott”
“Laws are in place to protect people, Last time i checked Love wasn't a crime, It was Embraced”
“To succeed, you only have to do two things: you have to start, and you have to finish.”
“Small minds go for dividends,but great minds go for capital appreciation.”
“To Truly Understand Something You Must Experience It.”
“Even Though They Might Not Be Right, The One Thing That I Respect In A Person Who Is Fired Up In Anger Is, At That Moment, They Are Sincere.”
“just sitting here thinking about life; it really is too short to waste it on nonsense and things that aren't gonna matter to you 10years from now. We all should be working towards leaving a legacy and leaving stuff for our kids and grand kids, and being remembered years after we're gone. If you died right now, would you be happy with the life you lived?”
“Albert Einstein is not a name that defines greatness, rather a name for a man who was so great that his voice echoes through decades.”
“Two things are infinite: the universe and human stupidity; and I'm not sure about the the universe.”
“All determination and drive requires is that you don't give up. If you get up and walk out the door you've already won half the battle.”
“We make a living by what we get, but we make a life by what we give.”
“Seeking peace? Find love within yourself and share that love with others. Then you will have peace.”
“Never let 'change' conquer 'strength', its supposed that the former is inevitable and latter is invincible”
“Don't blame yourself if you failed because you hoped. Be thankful that you did hope, for hope is a blessing in itself.”
“Don't blame yourself if you failed because you hoped. Be thankful that you did hope, for hope is a blessing in itself.”
“SUCCESS means making UNCOMFORTABLE commitments!”
“Defeat is not when you fall but if you stay fallen”
“Let my thoughts about life be the inspiration to your heart.”
“Success depends upon doing.”
“It's not our differences which divide us; rather, it's our lack of understanding our differences which divides us.”
“A Leader must see his profession as a Vocation rather than a Duty.”
“Dwell less on your problems and more on the solutions”
“Life without it's ups and downs is like music without it's rythm”
“I refuse to live a mediocre life,hence I got to dream big.”
“A gender barrier is exactly what it says it is; a barrier, and like all others, break it.”
“Don't compare myself to you, 'cause you don't know what I've been through.”
“Possibly, the best remedy for dealing with perceived injustice is to remember that there's no absolute justice; there's just us.”
“Opportunity lies in the wake of your mistakes.”
“Some say the gift of inspiration is the greatest gift; some say it is love. However, can you imagine what the gift of inspiration tempered by love would create.”
“We cannot live only for ourselves. A thousand fibers connect us with our
fellowmen; and along those fibers, as sympathetic threads, our actions run as
causes, and they come back to us as effects.”
“You know, sometimes it is the artist’s task to find out how much music you can still make with what you have left.”
“Never believe in limiting beliefs.”
“Treat people as if they were what they ought to be, and you help them to become what they are capable of being”
“The great people see the heart of people. Ego fades fast from the greatest people. Respect yourself and those around you. Feel the beat of another's heart and know them for whom they are. Give your heart to others to hold. Refrain from putting others down and help their heart move forward. When the world gets cold, drop your pride and put your heart to theirs. Show people your soul and raise their ego. Give love to those who deserve it, together you will warm the world and live life happily.”
“I am certain that after the dust of centuries has passed over our cities, we, too, will be remembered not for victories or defeats in battles or in politics, but for our contribution to the human spirit”
“If you can imagine it, you can achieve it; if you can dream it, you can become it.”
“A word of encouragement during a failure is worth more than an hour of praise after success.”
“We have been designed to adapt, grow, and evolve with an infinite number of changes in our environment. The secret to good life lies in accessing useful strategies to move with the changing experiences of our lives. We all possess all of the resources we require; we simply need to learn how to access them successfully.”
“Nothing happens until something moves.”
“If only you can see the positive future,the present challenges then becomes a child's play.”
“Judge each day not by the harvest you reap but by the seeds you plant.”
“For your safety, never come near me,or else I will corrupt your small minds with big thoughts.”
“If you find yourself in a losing battle, but can't accept the idea of retreat, quietly advance backwards.”
“The mind is a dangerous machine,once you identify & unlock the key to your mind,every other thing must bow.”
“The one place arrogance is sure to take you is nowhere.”
“To believe in yourself when nobody else does is to create change in your life.”
“Great thinkers are not great thinkers because they think all the time but because they do what they think.”
“I will love again; simply because i hate to hate and love to love.”
“I used to think God was mad at me, then I heard the music”
“wishes are a lazy man's(woman's) dream.”
“When people undermine your dreams, predict your doom, or criticize you, remember, they're telling you their story, not yours.”
“Love grows when you grow.”
“A soulmate is like a best friend, only more. He/she makes you a better person by HELPIN' you be a better person. No matter what happens, you've always got 'em in your heart and they're ALWAYS a part of you, and no matter what happens, you'll always love 'em. Nothin' will ever change that.”
“"It’s your fundamental right to be opinionated and disagree with me but when it comes to being vocal, none other than I have the right to know." ~ Unknown”
“There is no limit to the Helplessness that a person may undergo. The more you suffer the
more you know; how fragile and least significant part of the universe you are”
“Live big, love hard, and be epic.”
“"Sometimes, we need to stand upon the shoulders of the giant in order to attain fame and prominence."
-Isaac Newton”
“To make it in life,never worry yourself if you are not residing in the most prosperous country in life,but rather worry yourself if you are residing where no other human exist.”
“You must give, or happiness will pass.”
“You can continue to pass judgment or you can begin to gain perspective.”
“"In order to achieve one must be inspired." - Tom Krause”
“People will make you think your wings are broken but really your flying”
“I realized I needed to reinforce my foundation the moment hardship knocked on my door.”
“If there are no great dreams to conceive,then forget about greatness.”
“Change cannot happen overnight. It has to be carefully planned and diligently executed.”
“When life gets hard, stop and remember who you are and why you’re here.”
“Once you have an understanding of your limitations, you can work with them, instead of having them work against you and get in your way, which is what they do when you ignore them, whether you realize it or not. And then you will find that, in many cases, your limitations can be your strength.”
“To find a purpose for living is to identity a purposeful cause & be prepared to loose your life for that purpose.”
“Let your light shine or stay confined, find your dream or follow behind in line.”
“Negative thinkers are always sad any time there are problems in life,even though most times the problems are caused by them,but positive thinkers are usually happy,because its an opportunity for them to put their positive thinking to good use.”
“Anybody can try hard when the crowd is cheering. It takes guts to grind it out when no one is around to see you do the right thing.”
“Never be angry with life for lack of success,but rather be angry with failure for making success difficult to come by.”
“The quickest way to fail is to put off until later what needs to be done right now. That's also what happen naturally -- planning to do it all later.”
“We are gifted in many ways. Surely, anyone have something of which you don't have, so stop blaming other people for not having what you have. Most people are best because of little help they get from others.”
“Make yourself your favorite person because at the end of the day no one gives a shit until you make them!”
“Poverty can only defeat the un-willed mind,but the willed mind will only learn from it & eventually defeat it.”
“Don't crave attention, let attention crave you!”
“Just remember: If you make unfounded assumptions before choosing a path, you’re blindly sauntering along.”
“I think the person who takes a job in order to live - that is to say, for the money - has turned himself into a slave.”
“If you follow your bliss, you put yourself on a kind of track, which has been there all the while waiting for you, and the life that you ought to be living is the one you are living”
“If you believe you were only a mere pawn in a situation of some significance, just remember, at least you were in the game when most others were not fortunate to be so.”
“When the heart accepts death first, words you can trust are feelings you can take.”
“Genuine bon mots surprise those from whose lips they fall, no less than they do those who listen to them”
“Don't judge people, read them, and if you can't, don't judge them.”
“Dwelling on the past denies yourself of present opportunities.”
“If you stop enjoying it you should stop doing it. unless it pays the bills; In which case sacrifices for enjoyment will have to be made.”
“Be who you wanna be, and not be what other want you to be.”
“stars blinks all the time sometimes we saw some of them sometyms none of them, but they still blinks all the night... they blinks behind the cloud they blink while falling down the earth but never stops their work till the end...... so we people could be stars and should bring this blinking shining whole precious life.........”
“god made this world and our parents decorated it for us kids, but they never make thus trainned to defend even against such strangers..... but we should never oppose it as same as flower even grows in mud but never smells like that..... ♥ :)”
“Don't let the storm pass, learn to dance in the rain :)”
“War or dictatorship is the direct result when compromise is no longer acceptable.”
“The more good you do around you, the more good will come back to you”
“Unlike everyone else, I love when people try to down me. It only pushes me closer to my goals.”
“Unleash your potential and take a Quantum Leap into the Future and remain Focused, exceeding all Limitations, soaring to immeasurable heights.”
“When you lose sight of your morals, your standards, your true beliefs you lose the fire that drives people to break limits. There is so much we can all accomplish yet so many fail to do so because when its time to step up and face your dreams they cower and turn away and seconds later make excuses for doing so.We all know that life is challenging us to meet our fears that imprison our potential. Breaching that prison is the difference between the losers and the winners of this life and the next.”
“Being self-aware is not the absence of mistakes, but the ability to learn and correct them.”
“The only thing worse than being talked about is not being talked about.”
“An artist must be free to choose what he does, certainly, but he must also never be afraid to do what he might choose.”
“What happens to a dream deferred? Does it dry up - like a raisin in the sun? Or fester like a sore - And then run? Does it stink like rotten meat? Or crust and sugar over - like a syrupy sweet? Maybe it just sags - like a heavy lead”
“Your love shall out shine the evil ways of others.”
“Life's irony;Some will be as fast as a squirrel,while others will be as slow as a snail & they shall all get to their various destinations in life,but at different times.”
“Just because you're loud doesn't mean you're right...”
“Just because you're loud doesn't mean you're right...”
“Everyone is special; every moment in our life is unique. However difficult or painful a situation may look at present, it soon becomes a memory and a special journey. Memories make us who we are, but it also starts declining with age. There are many ways to preserve these special moments so that we can cherish a story that's our own.”
“Sometimes doing what's right isn't much fun right now.”
“Mystery is residing inside you,unravel it today.”
“Anybody can do the easy stuff, but it's the hard stuff that ultimately determines how successful you become.”
“Let your beliefs serve as your torchlight that guides your every move in this dark world.”
“Where There Are Clouds, There Is A Kingdom.”
“Life is gifted to us not just to work, but to work in order to realize life’s purpose. Work is not an end in itself, but a means to realize the end purpose of life.-RVM”
“Its the little things in life that has the most effect and have an influence in the world. Even the mightiest, biggest and tallest of the trees was nothing more than a seed.”
“Every step you take has a 50% chance to succeed or end up in failure, and if our success is build on pride of a man it shall surely fall, but not before it is shaken. Let God be the rock where you built your success.”
“When a man toils and work for his bread, the taste is as sweet as honey & rewarding but if one's wealth is not of his, but of others, the taste is bitter.”
“You must believe in yourself first, then put on your armor and go to battle.”
“If you want a life full of passion give life to your passion.”
“Do you earn for others to burn? Why not GIVE as you LIVE, so that when you die, the world will cry.-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“you already have what you are looking for...”
“Miracles can move mountains, perseverance will help you climb them.”
“YOU are your greatest asset.”
“Never give up in life,for the next corner may just be your ultimate turning point.”
“Fuel what DRIVES you!”
“To find out what you are truly made of, you have to be torn apart.”
“If you ain't growing you ain't living!”
“For to die prematurely for a genuine cause is better than to live for eternity without a cause.”
“I couldn't give a #*&%, not because i don't want to; but because i have none to give :(”
“out of everything to loose, the mind, is by far one of the most terrible.”
“When resolving a conflict at any international level, a sovereign nation relies on cooperation and political diplomacy. And when all else fails, we rely on the old nature of resolving conflicts and that is war. Human nature cannot be understood through peace, but only through war.”
“Think what you want ,
Do what you think..
You've freedom , that's all what it requires..
Do`not care what people think-off ;
Life is too short to be afraid-off ;
Dive In & Vanish the fear !
It's that Simple..”
“To admit defeat isn't failure, it is courage!”
“Go wild ; Go crazy..
Who Cares ! Enjoy your time till you are here”
“It's not just getting back up after you are knocked down, try to figure out why you were knocked down in the first place.”
“If you think in terms of a year, plant a seed; if in terms of ten years, plant trees; if in terms of 1 hour, teach the people.”
“Memilih bukan karena benar atau salah, tapi memilih apa yang memang lo anggap baik dan di jalanin sebagai komitmen.
Bukan memilih berdasarkan dari orang lain memandang lo sebagai apa atau memiliki apa.
Dan choice itu yang akan menentukan perubahan pandangan orang lain selama perjalanan hidupnya ke arah positif atau negatif.”
“Dreams are not borne out of a weak heart,but rather out of a brave heart.”
“Doors of opportunity are open to you if you knock. If u have hands, use it to create that opportunity and its simply starts by knocking on that door. For if you wait for opportunity to come to you, you are a fool, its like a man waiting for someone to open the door for you without knocking.”
“To better develop your success potentials,go to where you are unknown,because staying with familiar faces causes great familiar limitations.”
“When you think postively, each moment you are a winner”
“Blow your mind, but mind the blow!!!”
“Be alive and thrive towards the privilege of love in all of your days.”
“when a legend dies,leadership arises”
“The Problem With Most People In Their Lives Is That They Focus On What They Don't Have And What Is Happening To Them Instead Of What They Want And Dream About.”
“if they want pink canoes, give them pinc canoes”
“If I told you to wish for good health, you would think i’m ridiculous; but when I exchange the word "wish" for the word "pray", you believe it can work. That is the disempowering delusion religions have brought us.”
“Inspire someone today with your ideas,words & actions.”
“100% of a Guru’s marketing plan depends on you holding the belief that you are not enough; that you were created less equipped than necessary to fulfill your purpose. What if you let go of that belief and connected with the truth of your innate power to change and shape your life? You ARE enough. You CAN change and shape your own life. Anyone who tells you different is simply lying. Your life has immeasurable potentiality for greatness; act accordingly.”
“Poverty simply means lack of utilization of mental resources.”
“Don't pity life,squeeze the last drop of wealth out of life.”
“The foolish are scared of battle,but the wise embraces it whole heartedly,because they know that without battle there will be no breakthrough.”
“As I look back on my life, I realize that every time I thought I was being rejected from something good, I was actually being re-directed to something better.”
“The longer you admire and stare at the Mona Lisa, the shorter your time becomes to create something greater.”
“I don't get how people live just to live the moment, I heard leave the past behind, and live the present "the moment", but me, I got this present unwrapped and I'm working hard to build the future, my future.”
“Enlarge your coast & territory by dreaming big.”
“Now that I'm out of school, I've suddenly become more fascinated with reading. Ironic.”
“It's not who lost the fight, it's who never gave up. The one that gets up before the ten count endes, its the one that wipes the blood of his face, its the one who reachs deep within himself to find the power, find the strenght to over come just one more round.”
“Even the toughest will break, the sturdiest will fall. Even the strongest have a weekness.”
“Whatever you desire to be in future,start the process now,no matter how minute & inconvenient the situation may be,for starting it shows you really desire to birth the dream & the universe can only entrust us with the Dream if we are bold enough to start small.”
“A quitter always seems to have a good excuse why 'giving up' was the smart choice. But you'll never hear a superstar telling you that they wish they had given up earlier.”
“One may, with unyielding determination and stubborn persistence, attain competence in any human endeavor and be worthy of a footnote in history. However, it is obvious and indisputable that there exists innate, God-given talent evident in the pursuits and achievements of our fellow man. If this talent is nurtured and put to good use, there is written in history not a footnote, but volumes dedicated to the exemplary individual whose entirety can be approximated with one word: excellence.”
“If some one can not accept you at your worst they do not deserve you at your best”
“Most people want a responsible society, but few want to be held responsible.”
“Contrary to popular opinion, trying to succeed and giving your all to it, and failing, normally has little negative impact on your self esteem. Not having the courage or will power to follow through on a matter, however, is the enemy to feeling good about yourself.”
“You have to dream before your dreams can come true.”
“Everyone has had rain fall on their parade in life but it is how you take that rain to create your own sunshine”
“Life isn't all about the things you have accomplished, its all about the choices you make”
“Stand tall, stand proud. Sit tall, sit proud.”
“When you fight fire with fire you justify the actions of your enemy.”
“The difference between a savage and a civilized person is that a civilized person screws you according to a set of guidelines.”
“If you are feeling overwhelmed and not sure where to begin, just start anywhere with one small step. It is easier to see the road ahead once you've pulled out of the driveway.”
“Every time life knocks you down, it gives you an opportunity to get back up and rise, only higher!”
“Prisoners don't hate prison bars because they are black or white; they hate them for what those bars mean to them. People don't hate each other because of their differences, but what those differences mean to them.”
“Great
People
Bring Out The Greatness
In Other
People”
“Events that will occur in our lives are scattered everywhere but do not worry about the future events just take that word "lives" and drop the S and just LIVE”
“Giving is the heartbeat of love; if you don’t give, love will die.”
“Never be content in sowing in your soil alone,but rather be content when you sow in another's soil.”
“No matter what hardship you are facing, it can only affect your life with your consent.”
“The secret to getting answers in life is learning to ask the right questions”
“You can always choose different paths, what matters the most is that you took the first step.”
“Dance before the music is over. Live before your Life is over.-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“Bill gates, Mark Zuckerberg, Steve Jobs, Lawrence Ellison are the examples of college dropout billionaires. Bill Gates said that if we were born poor is not our mistake but if we die poor is our mistake. So as conclusion failure in life doesn't meant that life is over but it is just the matter of our will and hard work to come up in life and be one of them.”
“The mediocre minds are always searching for people's approval,before embarking on their dreams,but the great minds are only searching for their own mind's approval.”
“Faith gives our courage wings.”
“Just about every strategy looks like it's not working before it actually starts paying off. What you see right now isn't a good reason to quit.”
“Just about every strategy looks like it's not working before it actually starts paying off. What you see right now isn't a good reason to quit.”
“Self-deprecation in the form or humor anything else should only be practiced by professionals, otherwise it's like defecating on you. Don’t expect accolades, those sympathetic smiles are hiding people’s realization that you may be a willing doormat.”
“Celebrate kindness. Communicate intention. Concentrate effort.”
“They say don't look down in life. That's just not reality. Sometimes you have to look straight into the abyss where danger, pain, and frustration seem likely to crush your dreams. You must continue forward. This is the moment where you choose your destiny.”
“Hallow the body as a temple to comeliness and sanctify the heart as a sacrifice to love; love recompenses the adorers.”
“If your dream does not excite you in the morning,then that dream may not see the light.”
“To ruin a nation from within; first rob it of its vitality by valuing immediate gratification over virtue. Then, let the laws of physics take its toll, for it's easier to fall than to climb.”
“The failure is not from failing itself, but from not trying to begin with.”
“Love is like the wind, you can't see it. But you can feel it and it'll never go away.”
“As long as am standing under the sun nor the moon,all my beliefs must come to pass.”
“Don't cry for the past.Because the past is only used for taking examples. So take examples and bestow them upon the present and the future.”
“We have a lot of times to criticize people but no times to ourselves.”
“If God created a Perfect world, we would all be looking for problems, since he created an imperfect world, we all are looking for perfection through him.”
“The only way to reach the possible is to discover the limits of the impossible by vision,attitude and action”
“The reward for perseverance is always a breakthrough idea.”
“As long as you have identified the goose that can lay the Golden eggs,then no need to hoard money.”
“Rain and Pain never go in Vain! They are just tests before we see GAIN.-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“To show your opponents your weakness is to show them how to win without a fight”
“CHANCE AND CHOICE SHOULD BE GIVEN TO PEOPLE WHO DESERVE IT NOT TO EVERYONE WHO ASK IT...”
“EDUCATION IS YOUR HARD WORK AND GETTING GOOD RESULTS IS YOUR MANIFESTATION...”
“GiveUp Is More Easy Then HardWork!!!!
**”
“LIFE SEEMS TO BE LIKE LOVING SOMEONE DEEPLY AND SACRIFICING THEM FOR SOMEONE...”
“The greatest riches on earth are found inside the heart.”
“Don't change your work,
Change your Designation”
“obstacles don't keep a champion down , they make them fight harder !”
“Being a loser is a winner because a loser knows to lose, but being a winner ends up being a loser because the lost is felt the hardest when the winner is not used to being a loser.”
“If you think you’re too small to make a difference, try sleeping in a closed room with a mosquito.”
“Flaunt your Perfect Imperfection!”
“Love burns like Fire, Hate burns like Lava
And Sight is the Spark of it all.”
“Day Off is an extreme thing, but loneliness is its identical twin.”
“If you 'think' you can, you can!! So, just 'think' you can and you will. Good Luck !”
“If you 'think' you can, you can!! So, just 'think' you can and you will. Good Luck !”
“i am waiting for the great 'experiments and experiences' with you!”
“Life can recreate life...the giver was once given only to give another giver.”
“Think about your goals, keep your mind set and give your 100% and it's done.!”
“Motivation is like food in the brain which drive us to believe we can achieve the possible”
“Being the leader doesn't give you the permission to be a bully. Respect and inspiration work better than fear and chaos.”
“Life just is. What we do with our life is what makes it special and unique.”
“If you have to tell people that you're the one in charge, you're probably not...”
“At the end of faith, is failure.”
“Life Is Just A Collection Of Moments, Make Your Collection Legendary!!!”
“All great civilizations that have disintegrated from within have done so for one simple reason; it's easier to fall than to climb.”
“The Stress of Success, Is the Stress that we should all Crave.”
“If you master the art of patience, you will discover inner peace.”
“Dig deep within your being and uncover the good that’s been covered up by bad over time; it's never too late to better yourself.”
“We are what we are and it is what it is, but it's going to change and so can we.”
“Life is full of mysteries of who, why, when, and how. The fortunate blessings in all mysteries is we’ll never understand them until we accept,and appreciate the mysteries within ourselves.”
“Being free in Jesus is a luxury. If you really desire to be free in Jesus, you’re going to have to make a decision to stop running back and forth to that cheap jail cell, with all you’re used to be cheap inmates, which often times is your family and friends.”
“Understanding your boundaries it’s the first step toward self-improvement.”
“Tomorrow can never birth our dreams if our today is pregnant with fears.”
“If you disrespect life then life will disrespect you.”
“War is like a dark tunnel: You may only see the light once you are out of it.”
“Not everyone can write history, but you will always right your story.”
“I am proud to be a Pan-Asian. I'm lucky being a mixture of Malay and Chinese blood”
“Everyone is born with two paths inside them: one of goodness and one of evil. Which will you choose?”
“So much value is placed on knowing the truth; to which I ask,to what point is this truth. I would rather live believing in a lie that has a point to it,than live believing in a truth without a point.”
“Be positive in every phase of life, except HIV.”
“You are stronger than you think, tougher than you know, and greater than every bad moment.”
“My artworks are the collaborative result of my touch, my sight, my emotions, and my imaginations.”
“Those who savour, enjoy more flavour.”
“I never blame other people for my misfortunes, all i do is pick myself up and start again..”
“Better being a drop in the ocean than not in the ocean at all.”
“The Least not to be forgotten is the Motivation behind an Initiation.
-Chax”
“I thought therefore I was.”
“5L's to follow:-Live-Life-Love-Learn & leave”
“It is incomprehensible to judge those who have been systematically excluded from intellectual content and progressive thinking in the name of education, culture or religion”
“Every great movement must experience three stages: ridicule, discussion, adoption”
“Life is priceless, yet paid for by the number of breaths. Focus your heart on treasurable moments.”
“Eccentricity has always abounded when and where strength of character had abounded; and the amount of eccentricity in a society has generally been proportional to the amount of genius, mental vigor, and courage which it contained.”
“Decide to be HAPPY when you start your day. Commit to put JOY in whatever comes your way. You may be hurt by what people say, but don’t let anyone spoil your Day.-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“Life is a big question until you read the Quran.”
“In your pursuit of a better more prosperous future, don’t waste and pass up on a perfectly beautiful today.”
“Giving someone the silent treatment speaks volumes about your character”
“Salamat. The phrase 'thank you' is an expression of courage and generosity. Say it always even when you're alone, in prayer or in a whisper. It is a knock on the door of blessings”
“Don't raise your voice, improve your argument.”
“Where logic fails, faith continues.”
“What is Beautiful comes from Silence and reaches to Magnitudes”
“Wishing evil upon our enemies will not harm them. It will only harm the ill-wisher. It's like putting cyanide in your milk tea, drink it, and wishing other people to die. That's the reason why Jesus said, "bless your enemy, bless and do not curse them." ‪”
“Just because you have authority doesn't mean you are a leader.”
“Health. A financially struggling doctor once told me, I should be thankful that it's only money that I don't have. In a blink of an eye, my problem might be solved. Some people, it's health that they don't have, and no amount of money could solve their problems.”
“When you believe you "can't" you always seem to find a way to live up to those expectations.”
“Legend. The world will always attempt to make you just anybody else: unchanged, common, boring, and unremarkable. Don't be afraid to be original and authentic. Be a legend in your own right. You only have a single shot in this life.”
“Pray that Life is a beautiful bitch when it fucks u”
“Would you prefer to drag through life for 100 years or live with excitement for 50?-RVM”
“No person who is a failure every regrets working too hard for too long. It's always another excuse. Someone else's problem. That's probably the problem, isn't it?”
“The only difference between Garbage and Garb is Age!”
“Perfect parents do not create children who can say, "Sorry".”
“Its okay if you were for me, it has always made me stronger..”
“What you can't think, you can't say, What you can't say, you can't do cause your words are your actions only you can make it good or bad.”
“If you think your presence in someone's life is a minus rather than a plus, it's charity to leave.”
“Time is the great equalizer; it ultimately debases all organization.”
“Today, as you observe the moral, economic, and fiscal decay of this great country, remember that it has been the choices of the elite few who are molding and shaping the decay. It is, however, the ignorance of the citizens, who are electing and allowing these few to succeed.”
“In the avalanche of motivational quotes, ideating and creating a new own inspirational quote is like finding a different and selfless person in the midst of crowd.”
“Money is not everything, but can buy anything”
“Dream big but wake up early to actualize them”
“Even in rainy seasons the sun still shines don't give up the sun might just shine”
“Go yea and be great its in you”
“Value yourself more and show people your capabilities.”
“Where there is no struggle, there is no strength.”
“The thing you fear most has no power. Your fear of it is what has the power. Facing the truth really will set you free.”
“Real integrity is doing the right thing, knowing that nobody's going to know whether you did it or not.”
“Doing the best at this moment puts you in the best place for the next moment.”
“Don’t back down just to keep the peace. Standing up for your beliefs builds self-confidence and self-esteem.”
“Don't burn bridges. You will be surprised how often you may have to cross the same river.”
“Your mistake does not define who you are...you are your possibilities”
“Don’t judge a person by his rating. World has seen some great personalities who have had worst ratings in their past”
“So go ahead. Fall down. The world looks different from the ground.”
“What God intended for you goes far beyond anything you can imagine.”
“When someone shows you who they are, believe them the first time.”
“Set a goal when you’re ready for it, make a plan, and stick with it.”
“I do not believe in failure. It is not failure if you enjoyed the process.”
“Pity those who make assumptions without reasonable inquiry”
“You CAN have it all. You just can't have it all at once.”
“I’ve learned not to worry about what might come next.”
“This is a great day and we're just getting started.”
“The way to choose happiness is to follow what is right for you. Live your own
dreams. And you will know the meaning of happiness.”
“Follow your instincts. That's where true wisdom manifests itself.”
“Want to be unique in this ordinary world? Become someone people can put their trust into.”
“If you want to accomplish the goals of your life, you have to begin with the spirit.”
“If you come to fame not understanding who you are, it will define who you are.”
“You become excellent, and when you become excellent, no-one can take that away from you.”
“Criticism always seems to add inspiration to your pursuit of success. Strip away the anger and bias. And use the rest as fuel.”
“Criticism always seems to add inspiration to your pursuit of success. Strip away the anger and bias. And use the rest as fuel.”
“Bad personal habits spill over into bad business habits. You can't be a loser in one part of your life and expect it not to effect the rest of what you do.”
“Bad personal habits spill over into bad business habits. You can't be a loser in one part of your life and expect it not to effect the rest of what you do.”
“Look back at Life. Far more than what people did to influence your Life, it is your Actions, your Convictions, and your Thoughts that has got you where you are.-RVM”
“Be fit. You can’t go the distance in your business when you can’t go the distance with your body.”
“Characters are only as strong as their creators”
“Life without disappointment is delightful”
“Past is Fast, Future is Leisure, Be Utile”
“Spending time trying to justify your mistakes does not add to your overall growth or progress. Accept them for what they were, and be bold enough to embrace your future, with greater wisdom and purpose.”
“How you make a person feel is how that person will perceive you to be”
“Anger is an emotion that expresses insecurity. People who feel in total control of a situation and of themselves don't express this emotion.”
“If you want to start a business you hire Managers,
If you want to start a church you hire Leaders,
If you want to be successful you hire BOTH!”
“Focus on your goal like a hungry lion and run after it without any thought except to get it.”
“Luck is basically the cohesion of various coincidences.”
“If you're happy with who you are then you can look back on all of the bad experiences from your past with appreciation for their role in the development of creating the person you like today. You'll also know that through each new negative circumstance going on in your life in the present you'll become a person you will like even more in the future leaving you with nothing to fear.”
“Spend all of yourself before you die; make every breath count.”
“Never cease to strive as long as you’re alive.”
“I think it pisses God off if you walk by the color purple in a field somewhere and don't notice it.”
“Think like an employer, perform like an achiever & relish the outcome as an employee!”
“And the day came for the risk it took to remain tight inside the bud was more painful than the risk it took to blossom.”
“Your thoughts are the deal breakers in your life.”
“Living The Dream or die.”
“There will always be evil present in this world. No matter how you try to push it away, it will always come back. Its easier to give in to evil desires rather than to breakthrough that barrier. We know nothing of "Good" only "evil".”
“Run far away from negative people, they drain out every drop of energy from within you.”
“Living a righteous life is as Hard as educating an illiterate”
“The sweetest satisfactions of our basal wishes must be controlled and registered for an civilization to exist. Allowing its abundance to rein free would cause the disintegration of an orderly society.”
“If we don't need any Idol to worship God, then we don't need any religion to worship God.”
“Earth dreams for peace”
“We Be Close to You Jesus, You are our Light and Hope in this dark world”
“Jesus Kill My Past, because I want to live Your Future!!!”
“Not is the Stone, is the power of the Lord and your faith that Killer the Giant that haunts you”
“Do not Let Your Dream Kill: Genesis 37: 18-20”
“if my best friend needs me,i'll be there for him.if i need him,he will be there for me.one of the greatest gifts of life is knowing you can trust him and meeting someone who can change your life-your best friend.”
“Of all the shakles that Man has placed on their fellow Man, the most enduring have been the shakles that come from our minds.”
“All the problems that people create in their life can be summed up as them being unable or unwilling to properly assess the consequences of their actions and thoughts.”
“Where a man runs to another can walk to”
“From the sandy hills of Rockaway, Good Morning.”
“Do not castigate the person that boast,for he is just over certain of his tomorrow.”
“Some people are blessed with everything in there life, still they are not satisfied.”
“It is easy to get success but it is difficult to maintain it.”
“Progress isn’t some “day labor” ditch-digging assignment you can hire out to anyone and walk away. That’s your mission. That’s your job.”
“Progress isn’t some “day labor” ditch-digging assignment you can hire out to anyone and walk away. That’s your mission. That’s your job.”
“Don't tell me the sky is the limit, when there are footprints on the moon”
“If you live today in doubt,then your tomorrow will be filled with uncertainty.”
“Acceptance Is Half The Solution.”
“We, humans, during our lives, are presented with only 2 choices -- Fear of trying or Success.”
“Know that the world really does revolve around You and You live in a world of infinite possibilities!”
“Trying to look direct in to your soul ... it's almost like trying to see directly to the sun ..... its just impossible to focus and see a clear vision of what you really have in your heart.......with out getting blind first.......”
“There are different routes to the success avenue,but some may have to compulsorily pass through the poverty littered route to their success avenues.”
“I was willing to accept what I couldn't change.”
“Ignore anything that distracts you from achieving your ambitious plans for doing something amazing.”
“Life's irony;Most times we think so big & desire to accomplish big things in a hurry that we often forget that the fastest route to accomplishing the big things is by beginning small.”
“Just because you have authority doesn't mean that you're a leader.”
“Just because you have authority doesn't mean that you're a leader.”
“Harsh words can inflict wounds.
But silence can shatter a heart.”
“The more that you read, the more things you will know. The more that you learn, the more places you'll go.”
“The filthy flood of terms can't model the manoeuvres of stupendous artisans”
“If you dont get what you want,you wont want what you get.”
““Money Does Not Matter” People Who Believe and Say This
are BROKE or HAVE
NO RESPONSIBILITIES”
“Belittling your enemy in victory will only continue the fight.”
“Will you; will you win your freedom? Can you; do you dare? Fight today, and you will win a tomorrow.”
“There are so many adversaries also plying the same path with the great.”
“There are so many fruits to harvest from this wonderful tree called life.”
“It's the many failures i had in the past that made me successful today...”
“When all ODDS are against you, get EVEN.”
“There's nothing wrong with picking the low hanging fruit unless it stops you from reaching for the stars!”
“I got the life of my dreams,with the future in my palms and the knowledge to get through the day,so my past can't hold me down and not let anyone take my crown.”
“If you are not GOD, don't judge me”
“Your reality is as you perceive it to be. So, it is true, that by altering this perception we can alter our reality.”
“You have to begin to lose your memory, if only in bits and pieces, to realize that memory is what makes our lives. Life without memory is no life at all, just as an intelligence without the possibility of expression is not really an intelligence. Our memory is our coherence, our reason, our feeling, even our action. Without it, we are nothing.”
“People will always need hope, inspiration and ultimately salvation, and gospel music provides a path to all those things.”
“My teacher inspired me a lot.”
“You have the power to change everything you don't enjoy about your life. You do not have the power to change anything about another's life.”
“As cruel as it may seem, sometimes you must let a friend fall to the very bottom of the hill, before you help them up, so that they can enjoy the view from the top of the hill.”
“The present moment is all there is. The past has already unfolded, and the future has yet to. The present IS unfolding ... Enjoy that moment!”
“What if; The meaning of life is to be -- be yourself, be a friend, be love, be light, be laughter, be joy, be abundantly you- just a thought.”
“Adversity has fueled my desires and strengthened my being.”
“Don't allow someone else's disbelief in yourself corrupt your belief in yourself!”
“When you develop yourself to the point where your belief in yourself is so strong
that you know you can accomplish anything you put your mind to, your future
will be unlimited.”
“YOU are the miracle life has been waiting for you just need to AWAKEN to that level of consciousness”
“Do you want to catch a whale or a fish?”
“In the matter of friends, align yourself with those who vibrate at the energy level and frequency you wish to be at.”
“Beyond our fears lay our wildest dreams. By removing these fears we can live our dreams!”
“Don't to be shy to stand up and confront the change. Life is too short to sit down and wait for the change.”
“Life is less about YOU and more about what you DO; what you give, the compassion you show, the love you offer, the forgiveness given, etc.”
“Somebody should tell us, right at the start of our lives, that we are dying. Then we might live life to the limit, every minute of every day. Do it! I say. Whatever you want to do, do it now! There are only so many tomorrows.”
“Work as though you would live forever, and live as though you would die
today.”
“Our passions in life drive us to our purpose. Allow yourself to follow your passion and you will undoubtedly be living your purpose!”
“Remember who you are. YOU ARE SOURCE! Therefore, there is NOTHING you are not capable of doing, attaining...You have limitless possibilities!”
“There is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so.”
“We are boundless energy, limited by nothing, floating in a world of infinite possibilities. We are only bound by that which we allow to bind.”
“As long as God gives us breath, we must not give up. We must Keep trying.”
“Relax, breathe, feel the current of the universe around you. Be effortless and allow it to carry you to where you want to be!”
“Nothing is so easy as to deceive oneself; for what we wish, we readily believe.”
“Sometimes, we see in another what we don't wish to acknowledge in ourself but, until we acknowledge that we do have it and figure a way to use it positively we are still a prisoner of it.”
“Through our conscious expansion and exploration of SELF we gain the true insight to the riches of the world.”
“You cannot teach a man anything; you can only help him find it within himself.”
“Coincidences are when SOURCE, the UNIVERSE, and YOU CO-IN-CIDE in your favor!”
“The rise to success shouldn't mean a rise in Ego. A big head means less friends and less fans which means shortcut to loosing all you have gained. Remember, stay true to your fans and support group and they will stay true to you!”
“I wondered what else in my life I perceived to be wrong or difficult instead of
exploring to understand the true purpose.”
“Big goals get big results. No goals get no results or somebody else's results.”
“They all mention Les as an inspiration because of (his) early records, which were jaw-dropping when you first heard them as a novice guitarist. We revere him, but Les is so genuine and down-to-earth that he's still one of the lads.”
“The touring of earthquake-stricken areas was very saddening but on the other hands it was very inspirational too.”
“We want to inspire parents who are scared and overwhelmed, and also to positively reinforce school districts and all of the other professionals that are doing such a great job.”
“Today allow yourself to radiate the brilliance of you expanding to all you touch!”
“Your thoughts are Universal Boomerangs.”
“Clearly no group can as an entity create ideas. Only individuals can do this. A
group of individuals may, however, stimulate one another in the creation of
ideas.”
“Freedom is the ability to ALLOW yourself to live outside of limits and other peoples expectations of you.”
“First learn to forgive yourself before forgiving others…”
“Laugh because you can, Smile because it feels good, show compassion to others because it makes you tingle inside, and let's step outside of our comfort zone for a week and not care how wacky we appear!”
“If you empower dummies you get bad decisions faster!”
“The diagnoses of death for many gives them a reason to hold on -- to clutch tightly to life with every fiber of their being! The truth is the diagnoses came the day you were born! So, LIVE IT UP BABY”
“Start the day with victory and certainty that no matter what obstacles and challenges that come your way -- YOU WILL NOT AND CAN NOT FALTER. If you shall feel unstable or uncertain, lift your head up and walk with purpose and direction for YOU are divine source energy!”
“Kids are the alltime
champions of questioning. What could you gain by imitating
the innocence and curiosity of children who are completely determined to get an
answer?”
“Everything in the Universe is Neutral Energy. It is our thoughts, beliefs, and preconceived notions that we project upon things that give it value -- either positive or negative.”
“Inside journey is the most fascinating so try to reach within…”
“Most people live a life of reaction always looking for outward experiences to effect them in this moment. However, in this moment, you can be unaffected by simply recognizing you have the power to transform ANYTHING -- through our thoughts, words, and actions.”
“The fact that you are willing to say, ''I do not understand, and it is fine,'' is the greatest understanding you could exhibit.”
“Life is ours to be spent, not to be saved.”
“We project based on where we our in our life and our beliefs at that moment; however, when we shift those projections to positive, come from a place of love we transform where we are in the next moment ;)”
“"Failure" is the challenge seed that causes you to ask, "How Can I do this better?" We always have the power to change ;)”
“(With people) if you want to save time, dont be efficient. With people, slow is
fast and fast is slow."”
“When you see happiness, it does not mean that everything is perfect.
Its just that he's learnt to overlook imperfections.”
“Creativity is limitless.”
“Sometimes we just need somebody to show us something that we don't see ourselves, and our lives would change forever”
“You must begin to think of yourself as becoming the person you want to be.”
“Are you being the best you can be? Are you doing the best you can do? Do you have the best you can have?”
“In our eyes we do not rate it but thanks Lord for giving us everlasting life.”
“Happiness is a small and unworthy goal for something as big and fancy as a
whole lifetime, and should be taken in small doses.”
“Give me excitement, give me love, give me uncertainty, give me the life unknown.”
“Red bull may give you "wings", but Jesus
gave everybody life at no cost to you.”
“I believe that two people are connected at the heart, and it doesn't matter what you do, or who you are or where you live; there are no boundaries or barriers if two people are destined to be together.”
“No matter how clouded the sky may be, there is always blue sky behind it.”
“Class is an aura of confidence that is being sure without being cocky. Class has nothing to do with money. Class never runs scared. It is self-discipline and self-knowledge. It's the sure footedness that comes with having proved you can meet life.”
“We've been thinking a lot about inspiration. We wanted to see if the processes involved with creating visual arts and writing songs could come together in one place.”
“The road my be long, but there's
Always destination.”
“Your love for yourself is the bedrock that your entire foundation stands upon.”
“How do I love thee? Let me count the ways.”
“Your love for yourself is the bedrock that your entire foundation stands upon.”
“It does not matter what you were, it matters what you aspire to be”
“Your love for yourself is the bedrock that your entire foundation stands upon.”
“When defeat comes, accept it as a signal that your plans are not sound. Rebuild
those plans and set sail once more toward your coveted goal.”
“Living in another mans words is like living another mans life.”
“Once you tap into a source for your wisdom and understanding, love and affection, giving and sharing, support and guidance, pain and suffering - you release all the frustration in your mind and are ready to triumph over your life.”
“Under a spring mist, ice and water forget their old difference...”
“Start to invest in things and people you love. Do not allow fear to run your life, let love take charge and dictate what you do next in your life.”
“The driving force of ones existance, can materialize unknowingly, take control of your navigation and wheel spin towards your success”
“Love Quotes“Love is of all passions the strongest, for it attacks simultaneously the head, the heart and the senses.””
“There is no real excellence in all this world which can be separated from right
living.”
“I don't try to jump over 7foot bars, I look around for 1foot bars that I can step
over.”
“A dream is not something that you can ever achieve, but rather something that you chase until your dying day. They are neither real or fake, just unachievable.”
“And will you succeed? Yes indeed, yes indeed! Ninety-eight and three-quarters percent guaranteed!”
“When you make the finding yourself even
if you're the last person on Earth to
see the light you'll
never forget it.”
“We may not want to hear what our love ones have to say to us; however love should allow them to say it.”
“Sincere Love and kindness is the greatest talisman!-Mordecai Uka Dike”
“The way to gain a good reputation is to endeavor to be what you desire to appear.”
“Goals are new, forwardmoving objectives. They magnetize you towards them.”
“You won’t know any other love than the one you have already had, you won’t know any other pain than the one you have already felt, you won’t know any other feeling than the one you have already filtered through.”
“If it's not that simple, it's not that complicated either.”
“Never measure the height of a mountain until you have reached the top. Then you will see how low it was.”
“It’s funny how motivation and inspiration can be drawn from the strangest of places and situations, but boy, if feels damn good.”
“To exceed your limits, you first have to discover them.”
“The manner in which you treat people and circumstances in your life, reflects on how you handle your life and your environment. Bear in mind that your destiny is carved out of that.”
“Eighty percent of success is showing up.”
“We confide in our strength, without boasting of it; we respect that of others, without fearing it.”
“I think it is an inspiration to us, an inspiration to teachers to keep giving of our best.”
“It reveals the inspiration behind the 1967 Beatles classic I am the Walrus.”
“The choice is an inspired one.”
“Nikki (Garrett) was my inspiration. She told me before that final at bat it didn't matter what I had done before (in the game). Plus I was hitting for her, so I owed her one (a hit).”
“I always admired him, was so inspired by him,”
“Our lives are driven and channeled by our decisions, whatever situation we find ourselves in, we got ourselves there.”
“Love and appreciate me for me, not through set societal standards.”
“Our behavior is a function of our decisions, not our conditions. We can
subordinate feelings to values.”
“No matter how busy you are, you must take time to make the other person feel important.”
“The highest energy available to all living beings in the material universe is thought. Awareness is even higher than thought, simply because without awareness you would not be able to perceive thoughts. The origin of awareness is beyond anything found in this universe. Underneath the layers of body and mind rests your true Self. Pure awareness.”
“There's no rule book to respond to anything that comes your way - face it, deal with it - just don't hurt yourself and don't hurt other people because we are all buffeted by things we can't control with that magic wand.”
“What we do to impress others are the very things others find most annoying.”
“In life, even if you have delegated, you are fully accountable, no matter how embarrassing or hard to accept are the consequences.”
“It is very difficult to ignore something that is right under your nose because every time you look down, it is there - more especially when there is no covering it up while it is mushrooming into something difficult to hide.”
“People are not lazy. They simply have impotent goals that do not inspire them.”
“Finding faults in someone and ignoring the great moments and experiences you always shared, slowly kills the great moments and experiences you always shared.”
“Looking at the wound and nurturing the pain does not give you a sense of healing. Treat the would to a scar then move on by learning to love and appreciate that scar, regardless of how you got it.”
“If people are going to solve their problems, the first thing they've got to do is get
honest. If somebody comes to me and says, 'How do I get to Chicago?' my first
question's going to be, 'Well, where are you?'”
“Nothing can add more power to your life than concentrating all of your energies
on a limited set of targets.”
“Well be inspired by these poles and their messages for years to come.”
“Deal with your current affairs now, have their facts in order, because they have a tendency of resurfacing as ghosts of the past; as background check or as some research in history and whether you like it or not, that is your life - so handle it with love and care while you still have the opportunity.”
“Life is a bowl of cherries, don't eat them all.”
“Keep in mind that the true measure of an individual is how he treats a person who can do him absolutely no good.”
“How you feel about yourself is entirely up to you.”
“Man's love is of man's life a part; it is a woman's whole existence. In her first passion, a woman loves her lover, in all the others all she loves is love.”
“When you affirm your own rightness in the universe, then you cooperate
with
others easily and automatically as part of your own nature. You, being yourself,
helps others by themselves. Because you recognize your own uniqueness you will
not need to dominate others, nor cringe before them.”
“Joy comes from using your potential.”
“Don't judge someone by his ignorance.”
“All of humanity's moments can be simplified to either being a long quest or a slow swear. Ony the length of the question or swear varies. Retardation may be presented as swearing of a common or good quest, or questioning a commonly fearful one. Although the latter is normally positive and can be VERY funny.”
“After witnessing the power of the force, Luke Skywalker exclaimed, "I don't
believe it!" His Jedi mentor responded... "That is why you fail.”
“its better to be alone than to have a fake friend”
“Forget the past. Wait for the future. Cherish the present. Live in the moment.”
“The full measure of our personal happiness is dictated by how much we offer of ourselves in helping others.”
“Achievement seems to be connected with action. Successful men and women
keep moving. They make mistakes, but they don't quit.”
“I think, obviously, I have to be happy with what last season inspired. This is a good start to the program under my helm.”
“It was more of a challenge than an inspiration, she explains. ”
““In our world where everything is a number, struggle to be a plus to anybody, rather than a minus.””
“What really matters in life is knowing what you want and going after it”
“We should all expand our visions and imagine the world was created to be filled with love and harmony for all of us.”
“If you wait for your chance you may loose your opportunity.”
“Authentic friendship is a two-way street, therefore if you have some friends on your street that prefer the one-way by all means close down one of your lanes, and show them their one-way.”
“THINK, PLAN, EXECUTE!™”
“Principles are the territory. Values are maps. When we value correct principles,
have trutha
knowledge of things as they are.”
“Today, I will go out to watch the clouds change shapes, just like when I was a kid who always marveled at everything.”
“Wake up every morning and realize how blessed you are to see the sunshinning and the raindrops dropping, to have family and friends that truly care about your well being, to know that some small act of kindness can change someone's perspective on the world for a day, or forever. No matter what God sends your way you will embrace it and learn from it. Know that you were blessed with this life, unique from all others and make it your own.”
“Discipline without freedom is tyranny; freedom without discipline is chaos.”
“A friend is one who takes me for what I am.”
“" Like Quahini's - once life tends to follow more choices, balance, resistance, suportivness & hope "
PpFlip / A_Rebellious”
“To succeed, jump as quickly at opportunities as you do at conclusions.”
“The thoughts we choose to think are the tools we use to paint the canvas of our
lives.”
“He started off shaky. He realized that he was capable of doing much better. Now I see that he's inspired every time he steps unto the mat.”
“Worry less & smile often.”
“Robert Turtle is the father I've always wanted.”
“Sometimes one pays most for the things one gets for nothing.”
“It would feel weird, not to help someone on my part. I think I was put on this earth to help people in need.”
“I am really young, but I am not afraid to challenge the world.”
“Explore your higher latitudes . . . be a Columbus to whole new continents and
worlds within you, open new channels, not of trade but of thought.”
“View every problem as an opportunity.”
“an empty stomach doesn't feed the brain well”
“don't only put a smile on your face,WEAR it...”
“In a conversation, keep in mind that you're more interested in what you have to
say than anyone else is.”
“CHANGE HAPPENS,when we TAKE ACTION”
“we MAKE our destiny on what path we TAKE”
“There is a real magic in enthusiasm. It spells the difference between mediocrity
and accomplishment . . . It gives warmth and good feeling to all your personal
relationships.”
“Just as friction between certain types of rocks produces sparks of light, so it is
the friction of our individualities rubbing against each other that illuminates who
we really are.”
“John inspired me to 'take a run' at the board in North Merrick. 'I think you could do it,' he said, ... John was in my life a short time, but he was like the older brother I always wanted.”
“The creative legacy of Pirates of the Caribbean has come full circle with the attraction initially inspiring our highly successful film franchise and now the films inspiring exciting additions to the attraction itself.”
“We came charging today. (U.S. captain) Nancy (Lopez) gave us inspiration. She gave us so much motivation and drive. We just came out and did it. We did it.”
“Love is not blind. In fact, it is all seeing. It sees the beauty in the person beyond those 'ugliness'. It sees the reason behind those awkward actions. It sees the person behind those masks...Love sees through even after we close our eyes.”
“Contentment is not to be confused with gratitude or even acceptance. Of those two drafts one can drink deeply. But beware of contentment, and drink in small doses, for it is the enemy of efficiency and perfection and the death of motivation and enterprise.”
“One day Alice came to a fork in the road and saw a Cheshire cat in a tree. 'Which
road do I take?' she asked. His response was a question: 'Where do you want to
go?' 'I don't know,' Alice answered. 'Then,' said the cat, 'it doesn't matter.'”
“The more use a couch gets, the more it loses shape; as too does its owner.”
“The biggest treasure of them all on this world. 'Is yourself'.”
“The more use a couch gets, the more it loses shape; as too does its owner.”
“There is no security on this earth, only opportunity.”
“The more use a couch gets, the more it loses shape; as too does its owner.”
“You can't push yourself forward by standing still.”
“To be upset over what you don't have is to waste what you do have.”
“You can't push yourself forward by standing still.”
“We all gonna end up hunting dreams until the end.”
“You can't push yourself forward by standing still.”
“Permitting your life to be taken over by another person is like letting the waiter
eat your dinner.”
“We'll ship a total of three million records. There will be a half-million of the Nashville and Inspirational albums and 2.5 million of the soundtrack.”
“You can’t push yourself forward by staying still”
“You can’t push yourself forward by staying still”
“Miracles are natural; when they do not occur, something has gone wrong.”
“You can’t push yourself forward by staying still”
“too much love for fame, wealth and power makes one live in an enormous fear...”
“We speak of waves in a storm as "sea horses." Like wild horses, impetuous and
irresistible, a man can drown in them, but if he can ride them in a wellfounded
ship (as a man rides a horse which carries him), they can support him on his
voyages.”
“Enthusiasm finds the opportunities, and energy makes the most of them.”
“When the golden sun is setting and this earth no more you trod, May your name be in gold in the autography of God.”
“To be fond of dancing was a certain step towards falling in love.”
“Many people are uncomfortable with periods of change and transition; we often
think that endings equal death. But there is no death without rebirth.”
“If your actions inspire others to dream more, learn more, do more and become more, you are a leader.”
“Nurses are the heart and soul of everything you do. Pay close attention to their wants and needs, and take meaningful steps to address them, and you can transform your entire organization. When nurses are happy, patients are happy--and everything else naturally falls into place.”
“Believe that change can happen, even after overwhelming evidence says things
never seem to get better.”
“Your achievements in life are dependent on a simple two step process: 1) think
positive achievement thoughts, and 2) take positive actions toward those thoughts.
Don't wait another second, start the process right now.”
“This is probably about as close as you can get to universal. It's definitely going to be inspiring to other states about how there was this compromise. They found a way to get to a major expansion of coverage that people could agree on. For a conservative Republican, this is individual responsibility. For a Democrat, this is government helping those that need help.”
“There is nothing less inspiring and more unhelpful to the citizens of Oregon than the sound of one-hand clapping. I need your hand to join my hand.”
“Honor me not by mourning my death, but by celebrating my life”
“A friend is one that knows you as you are, understands where you have been, accepts what you have become, and still, gently allows you to grow.”
“Your own resolution to success is more important than any other one thing.”
“You might see me for somebody who went to the Olympics, and I got a nice watch, I got a nice ring, I have all these things. None of this would’ve been possible had I not gone through the things I went through.”
“There’s nothing you can’t accomplish. It doesn’t matter where you come from. You can be anything you want,””
“Great men will deliver messages of Universal Significance.”
“The policy of being too cautious is the greatest risk of all.”
“God did not create religion.”
“Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate. Our deepest fear is that we are powerful beyond measure. It is our light, not our darkness, that most frightens us. There is nothing enlightened about shrinking so that other people won't feel insecure around you. We are all meant to shine as children do. And as we let our own lights shine, we unconsciously give other people permission to do the same. As we are liberated from our own fear, our presence automatically liberates others.”
“The man who created religion was not God.”
“When a misfit lion started to take care of a fawn, he was segregated and was force fed antipsychotics by a society of lions, to cure his socially unacceptable behavior.”
“Life is a difficult thing to understand. It makes us too much happy and suddenly takes away the happiness.But we should smile in every phase of the life.”
“One thing I have learnt from the enemies is that, you can't outrun the but you can outsmart them.”
“Any fool can criticize, condemn and complain and most fools do.”
“Income seldom exceeds personal development.”
“A man should choose a friend who is better than himself. There are plenty of acquaintances in the world; but very few real friends.”
“Learning is like weightlifting. No burn, no learn.”
“In addition to self-awareness, imagination and conscience, it is the fourth human endowment-independent will-that really makes effective self-management possible. It is the ability to make decisions and choices and to act in accordance with them. It is the ability to act rather than to be acted upon, to proactively carry out the program we have developed through the other three endowments. Empowerment comes from learning how to use this great endowment in the decisions we make every day.”
“Learning is like weightlifting. No burn, no learn.”
“Never lose sight of what's important and you'll get there.”
“Love is my heritage, a special gift that I have been given and can share with the world.”
“Nothing will be attempted if all possible objections must first be overcome.”
“I am loving and my life is filled with love and harmony.”
“Everybody needs an inspiration.”
“I am never alone, for I am with God and a friendly universe.”
“"I attribute all the positive in my life to all the negative people gave me.””
“"I attribute all the positive in my life to all the negative people gave me.””
“Be strong, never give up and always push on,”
“Over every mountain there is a path, although it may not be seen from the valley.”
“After the cheers have died down and the stadium is empty, after the headlines have been written and after you are back in the quiet of your room and the championship ring has been placed on the dresser and all the pomp and fanfare has faded, the enduring things that are left are: the dedication to excellence, the dedication to victory, and the dedication to doing with our lives the very best we can to make the world a better place in which to live.”
“I ride motorbikes, ... Your father inspired me... my wife's letting me buy an ST1100 tomorrow.”
“I have so much admiration for people who devote their life to the church, ... I was quite inspired by Clara. I was inspired by her drive to do good, by her willingness to sacrifice herself and her body. How inspired she was inspired me.”
“In making my strips the inspiration is really only the germ of something, they say it's 99% perspiration, 1% inspiration.”
“"Never ever give up yourself on those problems for they are only challenges that needs to be face off..Be proud that you have choosen by GOD for GOD really knows that whatever comes our way he knows that we are capable of handeling our own life"...”
“you are not going to hell because hell does not exist,
you are not going to heaven because heaven does not exist,
but I'm pretty sure you will incarnate more fucked up in the head and as many times as necessary until you learn the meaning of life...”
“If you pump casually, you will pump forever. Pump hard to begin with and keep it
up until you get that water flowing. Then a great deal will happen.”
“The man who views the world at fifty the same as he did at twenty has wasted thirty years of his life.”
“God charges when you sit idle.”
“"There are treasures in life, But owners are few. Please don’t bury the talents, God gave to you." ~Tom Baker”
“True enjoyment comes from activity of the mind and exercise of the body; the
two are united.”
“Walking somewhere is similar to walking through snow. You walk and reach your destination. But, as you look back you admire the journey you just took. There is no straight path, there are many twists and turns. Just like life, you will always find a turn that leads you from your path. But you will reach your destination.”
“All isn’t true they made it up so the world could pay homage to them instead of the God in you.”
“we can only see forwards and never look back and when we turn around we can miss what's to come so don't dwell on what's behind you when everything you need to see Is in front of you”
“Traveling is my drug. I live to travel, I travel to live.”
“Don’t be a square in the circle of life.”
“We all wear masks.
Some hide our faces,
some hide our beliefs,
and some hide our pain.
Through all the madness of the world and identity we collapse, overwhelmed with everything that is happening. As you are ready to be devoured by your mask, your new identity, your friends send you your hope. Take that mask off and show who you really are, and be proud of it.”
“Think bigger than you've been taught possible. Doing so, you teach someone else to think bigger than that, and the cycle continues. This, my friend, is the phenomena of inspiration.”
“You are where you are and what you are because of yourself, because of your
own choices and decisions.”
“Think bigger than you've been taught possible. Doing so, you teach someone else to think bigger than that, and the cycle continues. This, my friend, is the phenomena of inspiration.”
“Past is just memories so leave good memories for yourself.”
“Take control of your destiny. Believe in yourself. Ignore those who try to
discourage you. Avoid negative sources, people, places, things and habits. Don't
give up and don't give in.”
“Past is just memories so leave good memories for yourself.”
“Use your mind to create opportunities and follow your heart to preserve it.”
“♥Never ask yourself what happen to you, instead ,teach your self to move forward♥”
“It is literally true that you can succeed best and quickest by helping others to succeed.”
“♫The only species in this world that has a perfect ability to be good and bad (with care) at the same time is a MOTHER.♫♥”
“If we concentrate too much on the past at the present we will lose the future that's before us”
“Flatter me, and I may not believe you. Criticize me, and I may not like you.
Ignore me, and I may not forgive you. Encourage me, and I may not forget you.”
“Is our lives like a book...where we do not know what the next chapters consists of? Do we prepare ourselves for those unwritten pages? I do not know what is written in those chapters, thankfully. I hopefully can provide some creative material to some of those unwritten pages.”
“One is not born into this world to do anything but only to undo something.”
““Thank God you are still alive for many have died and are dying as I speak. You still have the opportunity to change and make things right whilst those that have died wish for that second chance.””
“Our dreams and goals are never completely realized. They are always there before
our eyes, but always just slightly out of reach. And so, as we strive to fulfill our
vision, we must make the most of every living moment.”
“Follow your instincts. That's where true wisdom manifests itself.”
“The third game we laid back a little bit. We were not quite as inspired. We knew that they were going to try and tip and shoot the ball on us. It was a matter of getting our feet going.”
““Thank God you are still alive for many have died and are dying as I speak. You still have the opportunity to change and make things right whilst those that have died wish for that second chance.””
“The number of life changing moments in a quinquennium is entirely up to you.”
“The more you listen to the voice within you, the better you will hear what is
sounding outside.”
“Sexiness wears thin after a while and beauty fades, but to be married to a man who makes you laugh every day, ah, now that's a real treat.”
“True success, is not a matter of monetary gain, but rather the completion of a journey that begins with first understanding yourself and finding your purpose. Followed by the establishment of priorities and the appreciation of life. Upon accomplishing, next is striving for your vision, developing character in the process through experiences. Ultimately leading to a balanced life, and passionate career, providing enough to support the lifestyle that you choose to live. -True meaning of success.”
“Be the change you want to see in the world.”
“A man should never be ashamed to own he has been in the wrong, which is but
saying, in other words, that he is wiser today than he was yesterday.”
“Work like you don't need the money, love like your heart has never been broken, and dance like no one is watching”
“Fragrance of breeze,novel smell of dust after a drizzling,tin tin sound of squirrels,dried leaves floating with the wind... want me to feel I must sense all the possibilities of aesthetics during this moment of living.”
“Human beings can transform themselves. They can grow larger or smaller but
they grow every day.”
“At the end of your life, you will never regret not having passed one more test, not winning one more verdict or not closing one more deal. You will regret time not spent with a husband, a friend, a child, or a parent.”
“I'd rather die on my feet, than live on my knees”
“You can only stumble if you are moving.”
“When freedom prevails, the ingenuity and inventiveness of people creates
incredible wealth. This is the source of the natural improvement of the human
condition.”
“Inspired by the project's unique blending of commercial and cultural interests, the goal was to create an iconic, yet pragmatic design.”
“In the end it is not the years in your life that count. It is the life in your years”
“If your current lover does to you what your ex lover did to you,Then you must do to the current lover what you did to the ex lover.”
“The winners in life think constantly in terms of I can, I will, and I am. Losers, on
the other hand, concentrate their waking thoughts on what they should have or
would have done, or what they can’t do.”
“Life is only as ordinary as you allow it to be.”
“The man who removed the mountain began by carrying away small stones”
“Every FLAW you have done in your life makes you a mature thinker...”
“True silence is the rest of the mind, it is to the spirit what sleep is to the body,
nourishment and refreshment.”
“The only way to begin, change, and success is to simplify and go step by step. Don't even bother writing everything down or thinking ahead of what you have to do, for this will make things seem complicated, overwhelming and too much. Simplify and begin step by step without the process of thinking too much.”
“The only way to begin, change, and success is to simplify and go step by step. Don't even bother writing everything down or thinking ahead of what you have to do, for this will make things seem complicated, overwhelming and too much. Simplify and begin step by step without the process of thinking too much.”
“Any man's finest hour his
greatest fulfillment to all he holds dear is
that
moment when he has worked his heart out in a good cause and lies exhausted on
the field of battle victorious.
. . . Leave no regrets on the field.”
“If you are reading this quote you are not dead, if you are not dead then you are alive, if you are alive then you still have the chance to make things right!”
“Crises should not make you dream less,instead crises should make you dream harder & bigger.”
“If you are reading this quote you are not dead, if you are not dead then you are alive, if you are alive then you still have the chance to make things right!”
“We do not succeed in changing things according to our desire, but gradually our
desire changes. The situation that we hoped to change because it was intolerable
becomes unimportant. We have not managed to surmount the obstacle, as we
were absolutely determined to do, but life has taken us round it, led us past it, and
then if we turn round to gaze at the remote past, we can barely catch sight of it, so
imperceptible has it become.”
“The person who gets the farthest is generally the one who is willing to do and
dare. The sure thing boat never gets far from shore.”
“Once in a while you get a moment of clarity -- an inspiration -- and they don't come that frequently,”
“I was influenced, or inspired by, my kindergarten teacher. I wanted to be just like her.”
“I count him wiser who lives by the quotes than the one who writes the quotes!”
“Someone, somewhere, somehow believes that you are the right person to hang out with.”
“I count him wiser who lives by the quotes than the one who writes the quotes!”
“Be thankful to Allah, no matter how good or bad your life is.”
“A new semester? A new chapter! A new book! A new beginning! A different studies! A different lessons! A harder exams!”
“People search for love based on appearance, but they forgot about attitude and personality.”
“My first act of free will shall be to believe in free will.”
“Best feeling is achieving something hard to get it, in simple way.”
“The value within every successful birth of a human being. Is more than anything else on this world, even the world bank.”
“Life is amazing once you get to know it.”
“Life is amazing once you get to know it.”
“You can either focus on the pain, or let the pain focus you.”
“Time ticks, time flies, what have you done in your life?”
“If you're unhappy, what is it in your life that you're not facing?”
“Reflect upon you present blessings, of which every man has many not on your
past misfortunes, of which all men have some.”
“Time ticks, time flies, what have you done in your life?”
“The best inspirational story is the story of your life.NR”
“The nearest way to glory is to strive to be what you wish to be thought to be”
“"Musicians are here to spread truth. We must start with the youth.”
“Everything happens for a reason, so give it a reason to happen!”
“The best inspirational story is the story of your life.NR”
“The best job goes to the person who can get it done without passing the buck or coming back with excuses.”
“When a mistake reflects a characteristic nature, forgiveness becomes a sign of weakness.”
“10 C's of Love in my view - 'Care, Concern, Company, Compromise, Commit, Cause, Console, Courage, Continue, Complete”
“A Person with commitment is powerfull than God”
“I Am What I Am Not, So I Am Nothing, I Am What I Am, And I Am Everything.”
“religion tears people apart and music brings people together, what does that tell you?”
“If we don't know what we want, we become like a floating balloon. Our direction
in life is at the mercy of external forces.”
“The question isn't at what age I want to retire, it's at what income.”
“He has been a great inspiration to me for these four years.”
“knowledge, optimism and inspiration in people living with cancer.”
“you can never really change someone, only shade who they realy are.”
“If We Had Perfect Lives We Would Kill Ourselves Out Of Bordom.”
“Selfknowledge
is best learned, not by contemplation, but by action. Strive to do
your duty and you will soon discover of what stuff you are made.”
“Failure transforms into success when you persevere.”
“Not my own for this quote, but it is probably my very favorite by Mother Teresa. Part of ANYWAY. some verses say: What you could spend years building, someone could destroy overnight, Build anyway. " Give the world the best you have and it may never be enough. Give the world the best you have anyway. You see, in the final analysis, it is between you and God; it was never between you and them anyway"”
“Five frogs are sitting on a log. Four decide to jump off. How many are left?
Answer: five. Why? Because there's a difference between deciding and doing.”
“Giving connects two people, the giver and the receiver, and this connection gives
birth to a new sense of belonging.”
“Things are beautiful if you love them.”
“God is still in control of my Destiny. I’m so much wiser and have come to realize some people come in your life to help you succeed, some come to block your blessing, some come to teach you a lesson , some come to use you, some come to distract you and some come to inspire you to want to be better.”
“The best philosophy is to do one's duties, to take the world as it comes, submit
respectfully to one's lot, and bless the goodness that has given us so much
happiness with it, whatever it is.”
“Aim for the sky and you will slowly learn to fly”
“The quality of your life is dependent upon the quality of your ability to let go and forgive.”
“The more obstacles I overcome, the stronger I become”
“Change is inevitable. You can't avoid it. The best thing to do is accept change,
learn from it, and use it to your BEST advantage! Every situation, properly
perceived, becomes an opportunity.”
“A true measure of your worth includes all the benefits others have gained from
your successes.”
“everything may last, but my love for you will see no ending :) ”
“He who knows best knows how little he knows”
“The key is not to prioritize what's on your schedule, but to schedule your priorities.”
“True success is accompanied with happiness and joy rather than regret and sorrow.”
“When life throws its curve ball it is our job to step up to the plate and hit that ball the other direction twice as fast”
“Every adversity, every failure and every heartache carries with it the Seed of an
equivalent or a greater Benefit.”
“The height of your accomplishments will equal the depth of your convictions.”
“Cheap imitations do not thrill or inspire. Only that Love which has God's seal of approval will satisfy.”
“Loyalty and trust are sweet morsel to a snake. However it will not stop a snake from hissing at you from time to time. Only when you expose the snake by not feeding it can it then recognize the sweet morsel that was feeding it all the time.”
“It is not what you say, or wish, or hope or intent, it is only what you do that
counts.”
“People have two feet because they are not alone. If we were made to stand alone, we would have only one foot.”
“Life is too short to allow fears to make you shy, to live your own life on this world.”
“Our love cannot be measured, it just is.”
“To achieve something you've never achieved before, you must become someone
you've never been before.”
“To be that inspiration for people to do better in the world, I love that.”
“It would obviously be a groundbreaking race. It would be very exciting and very inspirational.”
“The events inspired characters that truly existed, as well as fictitious people I had to invent. Sometimes the harsh reality was too much, too absurd. This was the case with the story of the cat who roamed from one trench to another and in the film ended up being imprisoned. In reality, the tom cat was accused of spying and was arrested by the French army, and then shot according to regulations.”
“If you can't get inspired by what happened last Sunday in Hartford, then there's something wrong with you, ... That fired me up to want to play well, starting today.”
“I have amazing friends who have led inspirational lives.”
“A man can fool only one person in the world, himself.”
“"Blessed are those, who don't have money to spare for share market, for they shall never loss their sleep". Thus spake, "Share Market Buddha".”
“For any student of history, change is the law of life. Any attempt to contain it
guarantees an explosion down the road; the more rigid the adherence to the status
quo, the more violent the ultimate outcome will be.”
““If you cannot carry a worldly cross of morality, then you won’t bear a heavenly cross of spirituality.””
“People must resist what is outside them the authority to run their lives.”
““A good administrator should be a good actor. No wonder, Krishna, the divine, who rules this universe is known as, “Natwar”, a king among the actors.””
“The path of least resistance makes all rivers, and some men, crooked.”
““The memory, colored by ideas, emotions, thoughts, beliefs and perceptions and aided by the insufficient data, is a slender thread, holding which you cannot surmount the slippery mountain of past and reach the temple of truth.””
“If man was made to rule over women, then women would have no arms. Women were made with their arms to hold the man, and the man the Women. For because of that embrace, they are equal.”
“To err is human, to forgive is divine. I forgive the God for making this universe.”
“As we transition from one season to the next, we must be conscious (never fearful) of the old season that pleads to transition with us. We must castoff, and not become entangled again with that cold-hearted, ruthless, broken-down season that beguiled us, withered us, desensitized us, and could've destroyed us from ever entering the new season. What are you taking with you into your new season?”
“Life is like pieces of puzzle, you have to keep fixing it until you get the perfect picture. Don't give up yet.”
“Myopic thinkers looks for 'who to work for' while broad thinkers looks for 'who to work with'. Can you see the difference?”
“If you don't want to start changing yourself, don't wonder why you're miserable”
“As you become more clear about who you really are, you'll be better able to decide what is best for you - the first time around.”
“Say goodbye to the oldies, but goodies, because the good old days weren't always good and tomorrow ain't as bad as it seems”
“I wish I could go back to the day I met you, and kick you in the fucking balls for doing what you did, and slap myself for letting you.”
“Take responsibility for all that you are and all that you can be.”
“Only you can reach for your dreams and never give up..”
“Life is so amazing... in awe my mind is constantly grazing... on the sights and sounds that's projected in technic colour all around... near and far though the world is mar... never-the-less theres beauty to behold in all of nature, every creature and every soul!”
“The little I know I owe to my ignorance.”
“We cannot put off living until we're ready. Life is fired at us point blank.”
“Love grows by giving. The love we give away is the only love we keep. The only way to retain love is to give it away.”
“Living life with passion reveals the underlying trueth on the background of the soul to a living being~Lebogang Marumo 2013”
“Not what I have, but what I do is my kingdom.”
“I never came here to set the World on fire, but hopefully to give a spark to others so that they themselves might.”
“Follow not one that fails or falls instead follow one that coaxes yet conquers and that is your Conscience”
“Go confidently in the direction of your dreams! Live the life you've imagined. As
you simplify your life, the laws of the universe will be simpler.”
“Destiny is not a matter of chance, it is a matter of choice; it is not a thing to be
waited for, it is a thing to be achieved.”
“The things he has done for other people have been an inspiration for me. It's my hope that I can assist some people and walk in his large shoes.”
“They didn't think what they saw was going to be as awesome and inspirational as it was.”
“Fall not in your own eyes and you shall never fall in the eyes of the world”
“I love you not only for what you are, but for what I am when I am with you. I love you not only for what you have made of yourself, but for what you are making of me. I love you for the part of me that you bring out.”
“Character is what you know you are, not what others think you have.”
“Having a deep desire to evolve toward a better place in the avenues of life is not a crime. Let no one tell you otherwise.”
“A true smile from a complete stranger can inspire joy, even hope. Be that stranger...”
“All things are created twice. There's a mental or first creation, and a physical or
second creation to all things.”
“Whatever you're ready for is ready for you.”
“Young love is when you love someone because of what they do right. Mature love
is when you love someone in spite of what they do wrong.”
“Life of excuses is a life of regret.”
“Men may change their climate, but they cannot change their nature. A man that goes out a fool cannot ride or sail himself into common sense.”
“Life of excuses is a life of regret.”
“Positivity is a necessity.”
“Think twice before you make a mistake that you'll regret for the rest of your﻿ life.”
“This time, we kind of took the inspiration from the old Wolfman Jack border radio and how he influenced a whole generation of musicians with everything from blues to all kinds of hillbilly music and gospel music. It reached all the way to California, and I've heard people tell me they got it in Chicago.”
“John was always the smartest guy in the room. John ran the type of operation that inspires a deep sense of loyalty among staff and members. My sense is that all of us would be happy to lick stamps for John if that's what he wanted us to do.”
“When life knocks you down, sometimes it's better to lay there and watch the grass grow.”
“If you're in bad mood, take a deep breath. If you're in good mood, give thanks to God.”
“The thrill of achievement comes from overcoming adversity in the
accomplishment of an important goal.”
“As she sits in isolation, pondering her very existence, distant yet deliberate feelings of alienation in this backwards realm, leave her marooned.”
“To learn the truth of all LIFE, the human must stop being in awe of their own ego...it is foolish for man to think his own life is worth more to him than an animal's to itself, for he is insensitive to the inherent rights of our Mother's innocent beings.”
“Learning is not compulsory... neither is survival.”
“The value of action is that we make mistakes; mistakes show us what we need to learn.”
“When humans disregard or dismiss the lives of animals as being less important than their own, then they are disregarding the most valuable lessons of LIFE in general.”
“It is the human’s innate emotion, one of desire, that has always and will continue to stifle our spiritual evolvement and prevent paradise from manifesting...so simple, yet maddening...so very sad.”
“Life is a mirror, if you frown at it, it frowns back; if you smile, it returns the
greeting.”
“Woe is me, she cries out, a time of tribulation hangs over head like a dark cloud...yet through internal contradictions, she is grateful.”
“Don't be pessimistic and look at the Rain, Be optimistic and see the Rainbow”
“Voyaging into the unfading, eternal sea of atoms...delving deeply...she journeyed inward to awaken her immortal soul...and found divinity.”
“To me, the definition of focus is knowing exactly where you want to be today, next week, next month, next year, then never deviating from your plan. Once you can see, touch and feel your objective, all you have to do is pull back and put all your strength behind it, and you'll hit your target every time.”
“Watching her inspires me to get better. I didn't approach the match any differently. In fact, I was a little excited. I don't think I swung any harder. She plays a very smart game out there.”
“The earnings so far are not inspiring but it's the guidance people are looking at, not the numbers, and this has not been wonderful.”
“I think there's a lot of romantics out there who use the Internet to get inspiration. People are at a loss for words.”
“Taking heed, she ran, her soul was on fire...all those years of preparing...without fear, she moves ahead on the tail end of a whispering wind.”
“The sky is too big and I want my place within the beautiful stars. I see on it~Lebogang Marumo 2012”
“Fright or flight...she whispers...tears stain her collage of emotions...as she soars off into the night.”
“The change in seasons leaves me feeling bittersweet emotions.”
“Ignorance is learned and innocence is lost, but...not forgotten.”
“We must either find a way or make one.”
“The more I study the wealthy.. in an effort to learn how to help more people
around the world become one of them.. I'm stunned by how many people are
actually not rich.”
“Blind, unconditional faith in the impossible keeps one standing still in the raw emotions of compassion.”
“God creates partners and He created me to be with you. We are lucky to have found each other.”
“If you were starting over today, what changes would you make in your life?”
“Friendship redoubleth joys, and cutteth griefs in half”
“You need music, I dont know why.It's probably one of those Joseph Campbell questions, why we need ritual. We need magic and bliss, and power and myth, and celebration and religion in our lives and music is a good way to encapsulate a lot of it.”
“The very least you can do in your life is to figure out what you hope for. And the
most you can do is live inside that hope. Not admire it from a distance but live
right in it, under its roof. Right now I'm living in that hope, running down its
hallway, and touching the walls on both sides.”
“Action to be effective must be directed to clearly conceived ends.”
“I told him [Dean] that he really had inspired me in Iowa about a year ago, ... Well, when you give something this much of your life and the sacrifices that you make, he really did and he still does [inspire me].”
“"Patriotic families do more than fly our country's flag and vote. They pray for the brave men and women, including their families, who serve our great country. No greater service can they give, than to be willing to give their lives for others. May God be with them, as we pray daily for their safe returns." ~Tom Baker”
“In love, there is always one who kisses and one who offers the cheek.”
“Begin somewhere; you cannot build a reputation on what you intend to do.”
“life favours the brave, you want it, go get it”
“God creates partners and He created me to be with you. We are lucky to have found each other.”
“Goals determine what you are going to be.”
“It is our attitude at the beginning of a difficult task which, more than anything
else, will affect its successful outcome.”
“Don't waste your energy on being angry. Waste your energy on being happy, you'll sleep better”
“Fall down 7 times, stand up 8.”
“I learn to fail everyday. That is why I'm going to win!”
“Freedom lies in being bold.”
“What happens when you have too many options is that you are responsible for what happens to you.”
“I hope to God that I'm the last chapter in your book.”
“The valor that struggles is better than the weakness that endures.”
“You always go into a conference game with a little nerves. We had so much inspiration in the game to win it. Our main motivation was that two seed.”
“Hopefully this sort of movie can provide an idea of inspiration that might allow (students) to go into those areas where they find a passion and to go after it with heart.”
“I have been told many times "Have you ever loved someone so much that you could not for the life of you put it into words" and to that I would say "Well you obviously don't love her enough." "Why's that?" "Because my friend than you would have invented words to describe it."”
“Although we are very far apart,I'll always give you love from the depths of my aching heart. I love you more than words can say,but what's the use of speaking anyway? I have nothing left to say...I know that you will never love me this way...”
“As I say YES to life, life says YES to me!”
“Retain your individuality, it's what makes you beautiful.”
“I won't promise that I'll love you forever, but I promise to love you as long as you're good to me.”
“I dream my painting and then paint my dream.”
“Find expression for a sorrow, and it will become dear to you. Find an expression for joy, and you will intensify its ecstasy.”
“From great friendship comes great love.”
“Love is two people gravitating towards each other, not one chasing the other.”
“The healthiest form of revenge is self improvement.”
“You can't force something that's not meant to be; but you also don't need to force something that's meant to be.”
“No matter how much you are suffering, learn to appreciate life because the probability that you exist is zero and yet you exist”
“"I love you" isn't merely a phrase; the more you show me you mean it, the more I'm going to love you. If I don't believe it you'll watch me walk away.”
“It's not necessary to be an 'Intelligent', It is wise to have the 'Internet'”
“When we are not in love too much, we are not in love enough”
“Look at not its value[sic], for its value addition shows its worth.”
“Change breeds new life and is the essence of growth.”
“As one knows the poet by his fine music, so one can recognize the liar by his rich rhythmic utterance, and in neither case will the casual inspiration of the moment suffice. Here, as elsewhere, practice must precede perfection.”
“"I believe in the kindness of the human being" Helena Borges Cunha”
“God is a DJ, and life is a dance floor. There are people who play records and there are DJ's who blow minds. Styles loud, high decibels. It's about music! It's all music, and music never separates people. Don't be a jailbird of your own style!”
“Four steps to achievement: Plan purposefully. Prepare prayerfully. Proceed positively. Pursue persistently.”
“Everything you do is triggered by an emotion of either desire or fear.”
“Peace by authority and religion is not an option. Peace is found in the mind of each individual and when we all find it we will find peace on Earth.”
“We animals spend most of our lives quarrelling over where we are going in the next life while all the other animals are enjoying this one.”
“What would life be like if we had no courage to attempt anything?”
“Find something you love to do in life or else you’ll just find yourself relentlessly scrounging around for money like everyone else.”
“Upon bliss's highest crest; under despair's deepest cesspit, sits an accomplished creator.”
“You don't get paid for the hour. You get paid for the value you bring to the hour.”
“You'll seldom experience regret for anything that you've done. It is what you haven't done that will torment you. The message, therefore, is clear. Do it! Develop an appreciation for the present moment. Seize every second of your life and savor it. Value your present moments. Using them up in any self-defeating ways means you've lost them forever.”
“She is what inspired me. I was so angry.”
“I think people will really hook into that and he will be really inspirational to any bigger people who watch and think it's all just too hard because as he shows, you just have to make that start.”
“I was inspired by my grandmother, who recently learned how to surf the Net. She's gotten pretty good at it, too.”
“We could not have asked for a more inspirational partner to create an equally inspirational and entertaining DVD series.”
“Let Me Love You.”
“Men shrink less from offending one who inspires love than one who inspires fear.”
“Practice creative abandonment of time consuming activities that are not longer of
importance to you.”
“True love always makes a man better, no matter what woman inspires it”
“Time is not the only attribute of the past.”
“Want is a growing giant whom the coat of Have was never large enough to cover”
“How committed are you? There is a remarkable difference between a
commitment of 99% and 100%.”
“Attitude of gratitude - It does the spirit good!”
“Judge me not just by my words alone but by my actions too.”
“Some day you'll have someone worth holding on to... Someone who won't ever want to let you go...Someone who won't make you wonder if they were the one who got away, because that someone will be right there beside you, thanking the other someone who let you get away.”
“The things that we love tell us what we are.”
“Each of us has the strength to face down our demons. The trick is to find it.”
“It does not matter how much talent one possess in matters of luck.”
“No where is it written that GOD said it is alright to give up.”
“He is not known to be a top bureaucrat, and not known to be an inspirational leader. Maybe he is the severe, extreme and resolute leader.”
“No matter your creed, or the people you descend from, no matter how many other people there are, you are in control of your world. Make it bend to your will. Master your skills, form alliances, explore the boundless world of Earth. The possibilities are infinite.”
“True friends will never kick you to the curb. They are always willing to catch you when you start to fall.”
“It is the moment of our decisions that our destinies are created.”
“What greater gift can one give, than to truly forgive? How many years have to pass, before our lot is cast?”
“Most of us seek peace of mind, especially in troubled times. Yet we find it hard to turn our problems over to God, who is always there to comfort us.”
“To the degree we're not living our dreams, our comfort zone has more control of us than we have over ourselves.”
“Confidence is a habit that can be developed by acting as if you already had the
confidence you desire to have.”
“only lazy people complain about other peoples success you are what you make your self to be”
“Holding on to old memories, will keep you from making new ones.”
“Only as high as I reach can I grow, only as far as I seek can I go, only as deep as I look can I see, only as much as I dream can I be.”
“It does not matter how much talent one possess in matters of luck.”
“Great heartbreaks give great inspiration. Nihal Kiran Dalwai”
“It is extremely important for you to believe in yourselves not only for what you are now but for what you have the power to become. Trust in the Lord as He leads you along. He has things for you to do that you won't know about now but that will unfold later. If you stay close to Him, You will have some great adventures. You will live in a time where instead of sometimes being fulfilled, many of them will actually be fulfilled. The Lord will unfold your future bit by bit.”
“Men, like nails, lose their usefulness when they lose their direction and begin to
bend.”
“She's made a complete turnaround the last three weeks. I couldn't believe it, ... She's a big inspiration.”
“My late grandfather was an inspiration. Living in that environment, the importance of doing something for others was a constant part of the discourse.”
“Pretension is the enemy of inner joy”
“Do not go where the path may lead; go instead where there is no path and leave a trail”
“Every accomplishment begins with a decision to try.”
“Even if your life is at its worst you must SMILE! You never know when you're going to meet the one who takes your breath away!”
“To laugh often and much; to win the respect of intelligent people and the affection of children...to leave the world a better place...to know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived. This is to have succeeded.”
“Put all excuses aside and remember this: YOU are capable.”
“If you conduct yourself as though you expect to be successful and happy, you will
seldom be disappointed.”
“Just as butterflies natural ability to fly is disabled if marred by human fingers our spiritual wings are disabled if marred by the human fingerprint of fear.”
“Love is pure like the fresh fallen snow unencumbered by yesterday’s debris.”
“We see things not as they are, but as we are.”
“Leaving the “old pond” and venturing into the new requires us to trust our hearts. Our ”internal GPS unit”, is always aligned with our highest good and whispering the messages of the Divine.”
“I have found within me a veritable fortune, a storehouse of sunshine, a vastness that stretches the expanse of forever. I have found my soul, the essence of God that shines through my being, the eternal filament that sparkles with the fire breath of the Almighty.”
“If you don't run your own life....someone else will.”
“Kindness is an inner desire that makes us want to do good things even if we do not get anything in return. It is the joy of our life to do them. When we do good things from this inner desire, there is kindness in everything we think, say, want and do.”
“Daily, he is there and he's an inspiration to others. He does it in his own, quiet style.”
“Fear drags me into the slums of the emotions. But when I move into love, the penthouse of emotions, I choose a completely different neighborhood. The valley below transforms into a spectacular, unobstructed view reminding me of how far I have come.”
“It takes the strength of a Greek god to untangle yourself from the twisted sheets of slumber and throw back the blankets of darkness that have held you captive for so long.”
“Follow the crowd and you will never be followed by the crowd.”
“Your dreams can seem like lofty imaginings, nothing more than enticements of the dark. But your dreams are the blueprints of your life, calling you to action.”
“Your dreams are casting magic on the darkest of your nights, illuminating your potential and beckoning you to discover your fullness.”
“F.E.A.R. = False Evidence Appearing Real”
“Live, love and, be present in each moment. Each moment quickly passes by, but
over time, their culmination makes for a truly fulfilled life.”
“Love. Do you feel it? It encircles you in its embrace of simplicity. Moment by moment love is there in the space that surrounds you, in the cells that have formed you, in the breath that sustains you.”
“If a spider were to envy a birds flight and start pinning away to be a bird he would find himself building a nest, because that’s what birds do. His web of intricate, geometric designs would never be and he would find himself tangled in his own misguided creation.”
“He that is good with a hammer tends to think everything is a nail.”
“Self-love is the foundation of creation and the mortar between the bricks of life.”
“Life is like a sailboat. You can guide it, but you can never get it to follow in a straight line.”
“The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over and over and over
again, but expecting a different result.”
“Be smart, be intelligent and be informed.”
“I'm inspired to be in charge of a great club. It's getting huge. I'm overwhelmed. I've almost had to quit my other job.”
“It's a continuation of what we saw happening in 2005, the whole spa-inspired theme. Make my bathroom into a spa, make my bedroom a relaxing retreat.”
“The drummer; he inspired me to play like no one else I have ever met.”
“Whatever you are percolating on the inside will pour into your cup called life.”
“Talent is not developed anymore,it is discovered on you tube”
“TRUST is living in today and not wrapping the gifts of this day in the sorrows of yesterday’s newsprint or the fear of tomorrow's forecast.”
“Life is our gift to the heavens; and our spectators, watch from the stars.”
“Is there nothing we won't outsource, China is the world's largest producer of American flags how many American jobs where lost in that deal”
“In the pursuit of low production coast and higher profit margins we lost the American dream”
“Think about your goals at every opportunity throughout the day.”
“Talent, facebook and twitter can take you anywhere.”
“The great recession is upon us”
“Marketing is merely a civilized form of warfare in which most battles are won
with words, ideas and disciplined thinking.”
“Why think of the past? It is gone.
Why think of the future? It is infinite.
Why not think of the present? It is happening right now.”
“My goal is to let no one break my record”
“Stand up through the pain that brings you to your knees.”
“We are each gifted in a unique and important way. It is our privilege and our
adventure to discover our own special light.”
“Maybe the All-Star Game sparked something in him. It's really inspiring to watch someone who just goes out there, you know he puts up amazing numbers anyway, but he's been going above and beyond his normal play.”
“My interest is in the future because I am going to spend the rest of my life there”
“I can only hope that the life i leave, will lead to the ones that were blessed from the life i lived..”
“The past does not equal the future.”
“The pleasure of the effect my achievements have on others far exceeds the pleasure I receive from having them!”
“The pleasure of the effect my achievements have on others far exceeds the pleasure I receive from having them!”
“Smog made in china”
“Listening is very inexpensive; not listening could be very costly!”
“Each day, and the living of it, has to be a conscious creation in which discipline
and order are relieved with some play and some pure foolishness.”
“The definition of small business should be measured by profitability not by the number of people they employ”
“I have resolved that from this day on, I will do all the business I can honestly,
have all the fun I can reasonably, do all the good I can willingly, and save my
digestion by thinking pleasantly.”
“Growing up I was told that the early bird got the worm and I would always answer back "Well the second mouse gets the cheese"”
“You must be willing to sacrifice your whole life to be successful these days”
“The only way of finding the limits of the possible is by going beyond them to
into the impossible.”
“She is a very good friend to all of us and we love her dearly. She is an inspiration to everyone.”
“These latest neutrals take their inspiration from the cosmetics counter in both color and purpose.”
“I think that not letting things get the better of me was often my inspiration and what really made me give everything my best shot”
“THE MIDDLE CLASS HAS LEFT THE BUILDING”
“Change is a funny thing most of the time one does not need to change them self but only their way of thinking””
“And the day came when the risk to remain in the bud was more painful than the
risk it took to bloom.”
“your heart beats
strength .”
“a warrior uses his strength for what he loves,
but a real warrior uses his heart.”
“Timing is everything. There is a tide in the affairs of men which when taken at the
flood leads on to fortune.”
“Only the insecure strive for security.”
“In order for the light to illuminate the darkness must first be there.Same way how success needs failure and happiness needs sorrow.”
“If you see perfection then you'll never see yourself as equal.”
“Before we set our hearts too much on anything, let us examine how happy are
those who already possess it.”
“If time heals all hurt; will I live long enough?”
“Everyone will be old. We must grow old gracefully whoever we are.”
“Such a gift of God to men should never have to thank us for our loving and caring thoughts and actions... we were blessed with you women to respect, care for, watch out for, and to make us realize how lucky we are to have you ..”
“The greatest thing in this world is not so much where we are, but in which
direction we are moving.”
“Experience shows that success is due less to ability than to zeal. The winner is he
who gives himself to his work, body and soul.”
“A leader with dirty hands is respected by all he leads; a manager with clean nails is the scorn of all who work under him.”
“Dream it! Once it becomes a reality lived it with passion.”
“The only person capable of defeating you is you.”
“Don't underestimate the power of getting outside, breathing some fresh air, letting the breeze blow against you and hearing the birds chirp. - G. Brian Benson”
“you can be the best, if you believe in yourself.”
“With sacrifices comes appreciation”
“Be willing to launch in faith, with no guarantees of success. This is the mark of
personal greatness.”
“Lonely soul, I'm thinking of you. You are not alone. Lonely soul, close your eyes and everything will be okay. Lonely soul, stand up and be your own culture. Dont give up! I'll build you an army of prayers to guide you in your journey of pain. Lonely soul, I'll be your inspiration, I'll lend you a hand when you need it, I'll pour my heart out in words for you to feed on. Lonely soul, I will be there.”
“Dare to be different. Dare to be bold. Stand out in a crowd... Why would anyone want to fit in a mold? Be original. Be amazing. Be YOU!”
“When you make a mistake or get ridiculed or rejected, look at mistakes learning
experiences, and ridicule as ignorance. . . . Look at rejection as part of one
performance, not as a turndown of the performer.”
“Without faith, hope and trust, there is no promise for the future, and without a promising future, life has no direction, no meaning and no justification.”
“Once you've discarded your old, broken tools, and filled your tool box with good tools for living, you still must decide when to use the hammer and when to use the saw.”
“Showing emotion can either lead to two things. It shows the other person you care, but it also shows your too emotional.”
“Without faith, hope and trust, there is no promise for the future, and without a promising future, life has no direction, no meaning and no justification.”
“The test of a successful person is not an ability to eliminate all problems before
they arise, but to meet and work out difficulties when they do arise. We must be
willing to make an intelligent compromise with perfection lest we wait forever
before taking action. It's still good advice to cross bridges as we come to them.”
“A goal is not the same as a desire, and this is an important distinction to make. You can have a desire you don't intend to act on. But you can't have a goal you don't intend to act on.”
“When we are motivated by goals that have deep meaning, by dreams that need completion, by pure love that needs expressing, then we truly live life”
“You just inspired me and my whole generation,”
“[DepthX will get its first test in 2007 at the source of its inspiration, Sistema Zacatn, which happens to be a neat analog for Europa. Clearly, the flooded limestone sinkhole isn't as cold as Europa's ocean, but it can be incredibly toxic, extends to unknown depths, and has proven impervious to humans. (The world's premier cave diver, Sheck Exley - who happened to be a friend of Stone's - died in Zacatn in 1994.)] We know that life is there within the top 40 meters or so, ... Below that, no one knows what's there.”
“These Good Neighbor Award winners are an inspiration, not only to the 1 million plus members of the National Association of Realtors(r), but also to everyone who cares about helping others. They demonstrate what an enormous impact one person can have to make a difference in the world.”
“Your daughter was a great inspiration,”
“Other people will never be able to give you, what you can give to yourself.”
“Remember that all through history the way of truth and love has always won. There have been tyrants and murderers and for a time they seem invincible but in the end, they always fall -- think of it, ALWAYS.”
“The happiest person is he who thinks the most interesting thoughts.”
“If time heals all hurt; will I live long enough?”
“it's really not about tryin to figure out how you'll get to the end, by what means you will get there & spendin your life trying to define it by the worlds standards. for God already knows the desires of our hearts. therefore, why not enjoy the process & take in the present. cause the end result may not be what you envisioned. however, it may be more rewarding than you could have ever planned it yourself.”
“Difficulty attracts the man of character because it is in embracing it that he
realizes himself.”
“Power is the ability to do good things for others.”
“too many of us spend our time trying to chase happiness through wealth and status. however few of us pusue the passions of our hearts, and our God given talent. when will you put aside the lies of the world and live in the truth about who you were created to be? not what you think you should become.”
“The grass always looks greener on the other side. Do we ever stop to think why? Maybe it's because we neglect our own grass...sometimes we stop watering it and it dries out, sometimes we let some weeds grow instead of pulling them out and sometimes we fail to recognize that new seeds need to be planted where the grass has become bare. In order for something to stay in bloom you have to nurture it, no matter what side of the fence you're on.”
“Really seeking to understand another person is probably one of the most
important deposits you can make, and it is the key to every other deposit.”
“Real love isn't ordinary. Real love isn't artificial. Real love isn't something you can buy or manufacture, because it's not something you can sell. It doesn't wash away with a rainy day or evaporate when things get too heated. It sustains itself because that's what your heart does, it sustains the rest of you.”
“Don't you ever wonder why we say we're giving someone our heart and not our liver or some other organ in our body? We say we're giving that person our heart, because our heart is at our center. Our heart is the part of us that gives the rest of us life. So when you give your heart away, in essence you're telling that person that they are now at the very center of your life.”
“Years later, people look back upon their darkest day and say – as Churchill said of
London's war years "
This was our finest hour." In a tough spot right now? You
may be on the very edge of winning!”
“What life means to us is determined, not so much by what life brings to us as by
the attitude we bring to life; not so much by what happens to us as by our reaction
to what happens.”
“Look at our children, how happy they are, and if you can't get inspiration from Brandon and Rebecca Denny, you're just not here.”
“Resolve to be tender with the young, compassionate with the aged, sympathetic with the striving, and tolerant with the weak and the wrong. Sometime in your life you will have been all of these.”
“A test of a people is how it behaves toward the old. It is easy to love children. Even tyrants and dictators make a point of being fond of children. But the affection and care for the old, the incurable, the helpless are the true gold mines of a culture.”
“Nature is neutral; if you do the same things that other successful people have
done, you will enevitable enjoy the same success they have.”
“You don't value the house, until each brick is placed by you, so you don't value the business, until its made by you.”
“I miss the childish days of my youth, when each day was as long as a month is now.”
“You don't value the house, until each brick is placed by you, so you don't value the business, until its made by you.”
“People become really quite remarkable when they start thinking that they can do
things. When they believe in themselves they have the first secret of success.”
““A writer's goal is to weave the ordinary into fine silk and the truly extraordinary into diaphanous clarity ...””
““May you always see the world through the eyes of a child.””
“I think there is a great hunger within people to reach for the best in them.”
“If you are easily inspired by others, then you are most likely trying to impress others.”
“If you have made it this far doing nothing... imagine what you can do if you actually apply yourself.”
“Only those who respect the personality of others can be of real use to them”
“Price is what you pay. Value is what you get.”
“He's an inspiration to the other players trying to follow in Andy's footsteps,”
“To me, Peggy is an inspiration, because it'd be so easy not to do anything. It makes my heart warm.”
“Face life head on...It's a collision you can't ignore.”
“Hope can light the darkness, when hearts become dismayed”
“The philosophy behind marketing is is based on the old observation that every
man is really two men the
man he is and the man he wants to be.”
“If you love someone put their name in a circle not a heart, because a heart can be broken, a circle goes on forever.”
“The mind is like a time capsule, preserving every one of life's precious moments we've inherited along the way.”
“Work like you don't need the money, love like your heart has never been broken, and dance like no one is watching”
“Good leaders are like baseball umpires: they go practically unnoticed when doing
their jobs right.”
“Sing like no one's listening, love like you've never been hurt, dance like nobody's watching, and live like its heaven on earth.”
“If you live to be 100, I hope I live to be 100 minus 1 day, so I never have to live without you.”
“How would you feel if you had mastered and attained all your goals a year from
now? How would you feel about yourself? How would you feel about your life?
Answering these questions will help you develop compelling reasons to achieve
your goals. Having a powerful enough why will provide you with the necessary
how. Take this opportunity to brainstorm your top four oneyear
goals. Under
each one, write a paragraph about why you are absolutely committed to achieving
these goals within the year.”
“There lies within all beings an awakening. It is the hunger of life that seeks the dawn.”
“Good Luck comes to you as your hand is full of commitment and courage along with good qualities.”
“The more you teach positive ideas to others, the better you learn them yourself.”
“The less you open your heart to others, the more your heart suffers”
“Every piece has its own identity which we develop by the rule 'We know no limits.' We follow the inspiration of the moment and don't worry if what we're playing is alternative, progressive or fusion rock.”
“It is your duty to open up and enter your golden era.”
“All of us drink from the same well, so be careful what you put into it for you will receive the same from it and distribute it amongst others. Love and forgiveness should always fill OUR well!”
“Independent thinking alone is not suited to interdependent reality.”
“Kindness in giving creates love.”
“Time hasn't found its destiny so it kept moving and is still continuing, on the other hand, tide has found its very exciting so it keeps visiting.”
“Happiness does not come after you. You have to go after happiness till it turns back to see you.”
“Let's honor our mistakes by allowing them to teach us. Let's consider our failings
to be gifts, and share them humbly with others. Let the cracks in our perfect
facades let in light and air so that new life can grow through them.”
“"Inspiration appears at times,to be a sophistication of chance
and blunt force emotion" - DJ Garrity”
“Don't be afraid to step out of your comfort zone. Chances are you are going to land quite comfortably with both feet on the ground ready to take that next step.”
“If people knew how hard I worked at my art, they would not consider me a
genius.”
“Dost thou think because thou art virtuous there shall be no more cakes and ale?”
“He that is thy friend indeed,
He will help thee in thy need:
If thou sorrow, he will weep;
If thou wake, he cannot sleep:
Thus of every grief in heart
He with thee does bear a part.
These are certain signs to know
Faithful friend from flattering foe.”
“Ultimately, man should not ask what the meaning of his life is, but rather must
recognize that it is he who is asked. In a word, each man is questioned by life; and
he can only answer to life by answering for his own life; to life he can only
respond by being responsible.”
“In imagination, there's no limitation.”
“It was Jackie Robinson that inspired Dr. King to the very core of his being and encouraged him and allowed him to live out the full potential of his life. In 1947, we were living in a very different world than we are today.”
“She's my inspiration to exercise. More people should be like her.”
“They're looking for teachers who are creative and inspire children to want to learn. So the parent or the community member, whoever nominated had to be thinking along those lines.”
“Not having a father is like not having all the pieces to a puzzle... You can still make out what the picture is, but its still incomplete.”
“Hatred has weight and volume too. It felt so heavy when heart is full of it. Forgiving is the way of getting rid of it. Then you may feel even lighter than air.”
“God will not give you victory in any area of your life in which you are to proud to at first admit defeat.”
“At beyond continent of reality, there are ocean of ideas.”
“Being comfortable to achieve what you've set out to accomplish!”
“It's so easy to expect for an end when we finally feel tired or bored. That would not be necessarily happened if our mind had been set ready to experience it longer than as expected.”
“The man who goes alone can start today; but he who travels with another must
wait until the other person is ready.”
“There has to be new words to explain new worlds.”
“At the center of non-violence stands the principle of love.”
“Research has consistently shown that those who succeed tend to make decisions
rapidly and are slow to reverse a wellthoughtout
position. Conversely, people
who fail usually decide slowly and change their minds frequently. Once you've
made a sound decision, stick by it!”
“While we challenge ourselves, the abilities become prominent to conquer the obstacle's!”
“I am on a Journey with unlimited miles!”
“Intelligence is no where near the compassion of Inclusion!”
“Speak the truth with manners. & The boat of truth may shake but will never sink.
Learn from the experts; you will not live long enough to figure it all out by
yourself.”
“I have found that the greatest help in meeting any problem with decency and
selfrespect and whatever courage is demanded, is to know where you yourself
stand. That is, to have in words what you believe and are acting from.”
“Don't be taken advantage of; for your intelligence!”
“If you need a lot of glue to put your life together, leave the pieces and move on!”
“What distinguishes us one from another is our dreams . . . and what we do to
make them come about.”
“Love is wishing the past will be the future when it ends.”
“The essence of true friendship is to make allowances for another's little lapses.”
“Courage changes things for the better . . . [With courage you can] stay with
something long enough to succeed at it, realizing that it usually takes two, three or
four times as long to succeed as you thought or hoped.”
“No pleasure philosophy, no sensuality, no place nor power, no material success
can for a moment give such inner satisfaction as the sense of living for good
purposes, for maintenance of integrity, for the preservation of self approval.”
“It is a day we remember systematic slaughter of over a million of our innocent fellow Rwandans, an orgy of bloodletting unprecedented in the history of our nation.”
“When your rich and have everything you need, You still have your dreams.
When your down and out living in a cardboard box, You still have your dreams.
You can have everything or nothing but you will always have your dreams.
It doesn't matter if your dreams are small or big , All that matters are that they are your dreams, but every path to that dream has its sacrifices but first you must be willing to take the first step.
No dream is Insignificant. Dreams are what Life is made of.”
“We cannot turn the clock back nor can we undo the harm caused, but we have the power to determine the future and to ensure that what happened never happens again.”
“Some people do polarizing the religion against science. I use both to solve a problem with two different kind of approach.”
“Why choose to be normal? Why choose to be sub par ? Why lie to your self?
Because Normal does not challenge , Normal does not create change, Normal only leads to stagnation...Normality is forgotten...Do you want to be forgotten?”
“At the end of the day I'm just a sinner saved by grace. Better is it to recognize your saviour and rejoice in His mercy than to claim a life of pure innocence.”
“I will persist until I succeed. Always will I take another step. If that is of no avail I
will take another, and yet another. In truth, one step at a time is not too difficult. .
.. . I know that small attempts, repeated, will complete any undertaking.”
“If you've had wonderful family relationships, you will be able to call yourself a
true success in life no matter what else you've achieved.”
“One of the drives for me is inspiring other people. We want to be that inspiration to young girls out there, to women out there. We have songs that touch on women's issues and songs that touch on family issues; in particular, one about a family waiting on their soldier to come home. We really want to touch people, and one of our main goals when people come to our show is for them to kind of forget their problems for a few minutes and have a mental break from what's going on in the world right now.”
“Life is how we perceive it...thus our philosophy is based on our humane perceptions of life. Sadly the niave basis of our own humanity and perceptions cause our own schisms and ideas of false comfort from made up beliefs. Philosophy of the unknown is the main goal. Looking at the superficial and delving deeper to the root of its purpose. Ignore the masks of lies or half-truth clauses of our minds. Focus on the true meaning and the mind will be awakened by the hidden truths.”
“Life would become easier in a simple realization that everything works out in the end.”
“Destiny is not a matter of chance; but a matter of choice. It is not a thing to be
waited for. It is a thing to be achieved.”
“The TRUTH sometimes scares people. In order to skirt the truth they start to major on the minors as opposed to majoring on the truth that is before them.”
“A nice walk in the morning ia a great start to a wonderful day.”
“Never follow the crowd.”
“Those who do not create the future they want must endure the future they get.”
“Every failure is a lesson in success”
“My dreams are what keep me going, so I'll just keep on dreaming.”
“Don't focus on the days when you failed. Focus on all of the days when you won.
Keep a chart, monitor your successes, and don't give up!”
“If you're willing to give up on a dream then it wasn't a dream to begin with.”
““I am in the right place, at the right time, doing the right thing.””
“Having a Plan B doesn't mean that you don't have enough dedication towards Plan A. Rather it means that you are ready to do anything in order to achieve your goal.”
“The way you think, the way you behave, the way you eat, can influence your life by 30 to 50 years.”
“I think it inspired the team so much. You could feel it in the gym.”
“You see things; and you say, 'Why?' But I dream things that never were; and I say, 'Why not?'”
“The most constructive and destructive forces on this planet have been ideas put into practice.”
“You inevitably attract into your life people and circumstances in harmony with
your dominant thoughts.”
“I am not scared of failing, I am only scared of not given a chance”
“Don't tell me who I am, I'll show you who I am.”
“The great law of culture: Let each become all that he was created capable of
being.”
“The vision that you glorify in your mind, the ideal that you enthrone in your
heart this you will build your life by, and this you will become.”
“Many people pray to be kept out of unexpected problems.
Some people pray to be able to confront and overcome them.”
“"If you have a talent, make sure you always give the best of it"
-Javier Cruz Rivas”
“The most effective way to control your focus is through the use of questions. For
any question you pose, your brain provides an answer. For example, if you ask,
"Why is soandso
taking advantage of me?" you can't help but focus on how
you're being bilked, whether it's actually true or not. But if you ask instead, "How
can I improve this situation?" you are certain to get answers that enable you to
take positive action.”
“True happiness generates from suffering, as suffering gives away to the unnoticed and simple. Eyes open to the aura of a beautiful day and a smile will bring its light in a darkened heart.”
“Your love makes me at once the happiest and the unhappiest of men”
“To be wealthy, you must develop a burning desire for wealth and financial
independence.”
“The act of taking the first step is what separates the winners from the losers.”
“It was inspiring that we could win districts once. To come back and not be big-headed and win it two more times I think is great.”
“[McNally's inspiration for the play came from the Manhattan Theatre Club who asked the playwright for a new work to mark the re-opening of the Biltmore Theatre, which had been derelict for 16 years.] It was so terrible a place, ... that people shuddered as they passed it. It's a miracle that it was left standing.”
“I'm very inspired by Kelly Holmes. But I'm hoping I'm not going to be injured until I'm 34!”
“He's an inspiration to a lot of us.”
“There are four states of being for nature and human souls: Constructive, destructive, flourishing, and dying. Which will you nurture inside your spirit?”
“Think,as deep as possible. You'll find yourself uncertain over the most simplest of ideas.”
“Inspirational Moments are the building blocks to advancement of life”
“Prayer means that the total you is praying. Your whole being reaches out to God, and God reaches down to you.”
“There are three things you need most to succeed: believe, believe, believe.”
“Do you see how you hurt me, baby? So I hurt you too. Then we both get so blue. I am on a lonely road and I am traveling, looking for the key to set me free.”
“The reason a lot of people do not recognize opportunity is because it usually
disguises itself as hardwork.”
“every life is a book of secrets...”
“Sometimes, we feel conscious but unable to move our body. The first thing to do is focus in a prayer, then start to wink frequently. By this way, slowly but sure our body can be moved totally by our persistent willpower.”
“The world is a comedy to those who think, a tragedy to those who feel.”
“Love has no race, creed, nationality or religion.”
“Eventually you will come to understand that love heals everything, and love is all there is.”
“Longterm
planning is not about making longterm
decisions, it is about
understanding the future consequences of today's decisions.”
“When your self-worth goes up, your net worth goes up with it.”
“[Sue Ellen Cooper of Fullerton launched the society in April 1998. Her inspiration came from the verse] Warning (When I Am an Old Woman I Shall Wear Purple), ... When I am an old woman I shall wear purple with a red hat which doesn't go and doesn't suit me.”
“If you enable someone too much, you disable them.”
“Impossible is but a barrier of one's mind”
“Light shines upon us inspiration, and as it falls quietly over us,
our thoughts find a voice, dark, diaphanous and true, soothing; in the tone of shadows.”
“The very word perfection is full of flaw,because it can't exist. Or is that what perfection is? Flaw and irony. How perfect.”
“I'm thinking, I could be further ahead in life... But then again, I could've been far behind too... So just allow me to be happy with where I am.”
“The very word perfection is full of flaw,because it can't exist. Or is that what perfection is? Flaw and irony. How perfect.”
“Today I live in the quiet, joyous expectation of good.”
““There is a difference between a manager and a leader. Anyone can be a manager and tell others what to do; there is no investment and no reward. It takes a unique person, however, to be a leader. Only a true leader can invest into a person and reap the rewards of their investment at later time.””
“Start right, Work hard, Finish well. No matter what you accomplish in life or how great you become, these words will help you live life to your fullest potential.”
“The last dejected effort often becomes the winning stroke.”
“There are many things in life that can only be really understood after we have become parents who have offspring.”
““The glass is half full or half empty”, whatever you want it to be. Take it as an opportunity to fill it.”
“Adjustment in life is a difficult thing to do but it makes you successful.”
“Your most valuable asset can be your willingness to persist longer than anyone
else.”
“He sends down the angels with the inspiration by His commandment on whom He pleases of His servants, saying: Give the warning that there is no god but Me, therefore be careful (of your duty) to Me.”
“Years from now she may step back and say, 'Wow, I guess I was pretty inspirational and I was the first person to do this.' But right now she isn't thinking about that. She is thinking about playing.”
“Adjustment in life is a difficult thing to do but it makes you successful.”
“Flowers are divine droplets: They're fragile but beautiful, ubiquitous and persistent, just like the love of God...”
“What we do upon some great occasion will probably depend on what we already are; and what we are will be the result of previous years of self-discipline.”
“We know who you are because of it Decide who you will become in spite of it. Define it. Defeat it.”
“your actions are reflected on your outcome of any situation big or small”
“Each one of us has a fire in our heart for something. It's our goal in life to find it
and to keep it lit.”
“All of the top achievers I know are life-long learners... Looking for new skills, insights, and ideas. If they're not learning, they're not growing... not moving toward excellence.”
“Do it yourself if no one helps you on what you deserve their help, you may accomplish more successfully by doing it yourself. So why worries? Try your best !”
“Impossibility only lasts until you find new unbelievable hard evidences.”
“The best opportunities in life are the ones we create. Goal setting provides for
you the opportunity to create an extraordinary life.”
“embrace the light and glow & look for the stars in the darkness when it falls upon u only then u know it is too early to end the journey, the journey of life.”
“Do it yourself if no one helps you on what you deserve their help, you may accomplish more successfully by doing it yourself. So why worries? Try your best !”
“Fix your eyes on perfection and you make almost everything speed towards it.”
“Seek respect mainly from thyself, for it comes first from within.”
“And she who guarded her chastity, so We breathed into her of Our inspiration and made her and her son a sign for the nations.”
“You can maintain comfort in any environment as long as you have a solid foundation within self.”
“Great success stories emerge from great adversities”
“Tomorrow will always be better then today.”
“Innovation has a direct correlation to imagination, without the suppression of conformity”
“Friends becomes enemies, enemies become friends, no matter what happpens the end justifies the means.”
“Education isn't based solely on a degree, yet to the degree one wishes to pursue.”
“It doesn't matter where you're coming from; all that matters is where you are
going. You can't talk your way out of problems you behave yourself into.”
“I take inspiration from so many things because if you don't learn from other people's stories people will learn from yours.”
“I take inspiration from so many things because if you don't learn from other people's stories people will learn from yours.”
“It’s a privilege to be alive and able to love.”
“I don't think it's about MORE gun control. I grew up in the South with guns everywhere & we never shot anyone. This [shooting] is about people who aren't taught the VALUE of life.”
“Keep your head above the clouds and your mind above the stars”
“I am sad yet i don't cry not because i won't,but because I can't,my eyes have dried themselves to this point.I shall not lie I am devastated and believe it or not that is why I am so joyful. A blessing incognito.”
“Fight to make right the wrong that laid plight.....LIVING THE DREAM FOUNDATION!”
“Oh, love is real enough; you will find it someday, but it has one archenemy - and that is life.”
“Peter 
 Ackerman's work and writings on nonviolent civic resistance 
 have been a source of inspiration and education for citizens’ 
 movements and activists all over the world, ... His strong 
 and unwavering commitment to fostering and strengthening democracy 
 is a tremendous asset for Freedom House, and we are privileged 
 to benefit from his leadership.”
“That's the inspiration for this program, to see that it can make a difference.”
“Someone says that a picture is worth a thousand words.
Well I say quotes summarize them all.”
“Grief is a gift.
It makes us stop and be aware of the other person's significance.
It makes us stop to value what's left.
It makes us stop to realize how other people would grieve when we're gone...”
“The supreme object of life is to live. Few people live. It is true life only to realize one's own perfection, to make one's every dream a reality.”
“Be wait till your best time comes, it is ahead. Cease your painful moments with hope of happiness in next moment. Be happy, good you have done will come to you in next second, your sadness will be gone with suffering of your enemies who want to chop you over your innocence.”
“"To the Incompetent Person"
My ears are for the wise, to all of you who bs, it may come as a surprise...I just can't hear you..you'll nvr understand, eliminate the bs thats been my number 1 plan...my eyes see it clear, n my heart follows it thru...my future is success, not be another you....”
“There are things that we don't want to happen but have to accept,
things we don't want to know but have to learn,
and people we can't live without but have to let go”
“Plan your work and work your plan.”
“Men and women inspire, God changes”
“We are only constrained by the boundaries of our imagination”
“May Your Tears Come From Laughing,
You Find Friends Worth Having.
With Every Year Passing,
They Mean More Than Gold!
May You Win But Stay Humble,
Smile More Than Grumble,
And Know When You Stumble,
You're Never Alone!”
“Your success: It's up to others to believe it's possible. It's up to you to make it happen”
“I am not going to give up until tomorrow dies”
“Learn to Love like the Sun warm and bright.”
“I had an X-ray today and they found you in my heart. The doctor said if I took you out I would die because I could not
live without you.”
“The human mind is an undisputable weapon.”
“When does a boy become a man? When he realizes, crying is a futile exercise.”
“Strong will, always makes me touched.
That reminds me about many 'fall and rise again' in my life.”
“Do not measure a relationship by your hearts desires, but only what you perceive through vision alone.”
“Every day is worth so much more than the one before.”
“Recession is not the time to fold your arms & watch,but it is the time to spread your wings & venture out.”
“I'll pick you up when your down, and i'll carry you when you cant get back up...but dont think i wont drop u, if u continue to keep fn up....”
“I always try to inspire others, bc i've experienced and witnessed others exp failure...and for one to honestly feel or think they can't change for improvement or to become a better person is a huge confusion....anyone at any given time has the capability of becoming something much greater then they are at this given moment...”
“I always know that I can make it no matter what I go through. Because Jesus said, "during the worst times of your life, it's then that I carried you."”
“Credit can always be taken, but success can't ; it can only be earned.”
“None of us can do it all by ourselves, but all of us can make a little/big difference together.”
“To have the mind of a scientist and the heart of a Christian, truly is a blessing as much as it is a curse”
“To have the mind of a scientist and the heart of a Christian, truly is a blessing as much as it is a curse”
“"IT'S ONLY UNTIL YOU BEGIN TO TEACH OTHERS THAT YOU DISCOVER HOW MUCH YOU KNOW".”
“Treat a man as he is, and he will remain as he is. Treat a man as he could be, and he will become what he should be.”
“Trusting the unknown and being unafraid is a moment of acknowledging God's presence.”
“You have eternity left to be bored of death so you'll better get used to life”
“Smile all the while because life is just a mile; enjoy the journey before it’s over.”
“Purpose is that Power that will propel you to get out of bed each morning and push you to make your Dreams come true.”
“When your busy trying to tie my hands. My feet has already walked into it.”
“Friends becomes enemies, enemies become friends, no matter what happpens the end justifies the means.”
“Pop culture is the greatest singular threat to original thought and imagination, that is if you have those. If you don't have those, then pop culture is the greatest source of inspiration for your survival”
“Most times I pick my pen with the intention to write, I find out that I can't write much. Most of my writings come when I least mean them.”
“Friends becomes enemies, enemies become friends, no matter what happpens stay focused and stay true to the game.”
“Friends becomes enemies, enemies become friends, no matter what happpens stay focused and stay true to the game.”
“WHATEVER CAN BE DONE TODAY MUST BE DONE TODAY; FOR TOMORROW HAS ITS OWN OBLIGATIONS.”
“Everyone is unique but some are afraid to show that they are”
“Live Like you never lived before”
“Money can buy happiness but bought happiness can be destroyed while real happiness cant be”
“Were all born with happiness you just have to find it”
“Expect what not to expect”
“Todays mistakes are tomorows successes”
“You cant win if you dont begin”
“Success is measured not in what we do but how we do it”
“ The more you know about yourself the more you can change”
“The most expensive things in life dont cost anything”
“Sometimes you risk your reputation to get what you want”
“The Achiever says his Thoughts led him to Success and the Criminal says his Thoughts led him to Crime. Everybody thinks, but what we Think determines our Destiny.”
“We're all born original but some of us die as duplicates”
“The best gift you can give to someone is your time. Because you can never give that away to someone else"”
“Everything in my favour is working against me”
“I can't be true to someone else unless I'm true to me first.”
“The best thing in life occurs in yourself”
“The past or past events and the future or future events, ONLY EXIST IN THE MIND. They are not real or material substance. They are mental creations and therefore, illusions. Now or this moment, is the only thing that is real.”
“It is the experience of learning and not the record of perfection that ultimately define ourselves.”
““Your Purpose in life is your destiny". - Paul E. Ehimen”
““God plans in man’s mind, works in his heart, lives in his action and leaves at his reaction.””
“What we do for ourselves dies with us. What we do for others and the world remains and is immortal.”
“Most people love to define true LOVE.
But true LOVE is not a word that can easily be defined.
It is a feeling and not just simply a WORD that needs to be explained.
Define it and you'll get the knowledge about LOVE.
Feel it and you'll be falling in LOVE.”
“The measure of a life, after all, is not its duration, but its donation.”
“Everyone is allowed to have their own truth and reality!
Just because it may be different than yours, does not make it wrong or right, better or worse! It's just different!”
“Recipe to Living The Dream:
Love is the main ingredient; do not skimp.
Marinade the love in courage until all fear breaks down.
Add a dash of gift.
Blend in some laughter and smiles.
Drizzle in a little inspiration.
Then sprinkle on some immaturity just for fun.
Serve hot or cold; this dish will last forever.”
“Leaving this earth is an easy thing to do, you just have to accept the fact that you are walking towards a different "journey" of life; or you may call it "going home". Yes, leaving life with unfulfilled dreams is a horrendous torture that no one could ever endure. But living life and embracing all the failures or even the little success you had experienced as man is all worth the adventure. For that defines our purpose as human.”
“If you're the smartest person around, you will never grow!”
““A hero's strength is not measured on how many people he saves, but on what he tries to do for those who are weak””
“Strength is not a virtue of the strong but an illusion of the weak”
“Happiness is abundant when it comes to self-realisation!”
“Your business is based upon your commitment!”
“Look over the horizon, and you won't see a thing. Look only where the sun is falling, only then will the path that seemed, at first distant and impenetrable, become a stroll in a forest, no straight path, but where obstacles are easily seen.”
“To all those who look towards the pessimistic side that the future will be bleak, I have one thing to say. Without hope you are already dead.”
“Silence is the language of the wise only the wise can understand.”
“Talent wins games, but teamwork and intelligence wins championships.”
“The way a team plays as a whole determines its success. You may have the greatest bunch of individual stars in the world, but if they don't play together, the club won't be worth a dime.”
“By working faithfully eight hours a day, you may eventually get to be a boss and work twelve hours a day”
“Crystallize your goals. Make a plan for achieving them and set yourself a deadline. Then, with supreme confidence, determination and disregard for obstacles and other people's criticisms, carry out your plan.”
“Courage takes you on a tour of the brighter World.”
“Love is too heavy to bear which is why we spend it by loving the Life around us. If we stop loving there is no reason why we shouldn't feel Pain.”
“What can I say, tired of living under people's breath. And living a life out of regrets.”
“A leader is one who knows the way, goes the way, and shows the way.”
“Procrastination is the enemy of action!”
“The ultimate result of war is peace.”
“Perfection is not neccessary to become an inspiration.”
“To judge the greatness of success,calculate the magnitude of hard work behind it.”
“Even if you lack the smarts, be a good person.”
“Inspiration attached to phenomenons is a failure to find something worth describing in yourself.”
“It's easy to gather people around but hard to count them in.”
“Future begins with FU”
“Nature and love are my greatest inspirations. It's is like an attempt to define the undefinable.”
“You are a delicate as a flower, One little thing can break you, so dont let anything come in the way of what you really want.”
“One can know Person's Mental & Physical Strength, by looking at it's appetite.
Be wise while eating, know what your appetite is & What it should be. You'll always remain fit, wit & healthy.”
“One can know Person's Mental & Physical Strength, by looking at it's appetite.
Be wise while eating, know what your appetite is & What it should be. You'll always remain fit, wit & healthy.”
“An external motive can never Inspire you. It will only Motivate you to move, but you will soon stop. Seek Inspiration!”
“Excessive thinking is the killer of happiness.”
“Remember, that the person that just broke your heart just freed you up to meet the love of your life.”
“A smile before a greeting makes our hearts greet before our hands.”
“I desire one thing: a life of love and happiness… THE END”
“My Body is but a vessel that carries my soul while on earth, though my soul will live on for eternity.”
“It takes extreme heat and pressure to bring a diamond to the surface. The Treasure is within You – allow the Process and Evolve to the Purpose that you were intended for.
Sara Dann (McDonald) 2013”
“The number one reason for failure is EGO!”
“I have not failed. I was just trying to make sin work in my success.”
“We didn't born on this life to satisfy people, we born to satisfy Allah.”
“Let there be light so all is evident”
“Destiny will inevitably occur, when love is allowed to pilot the heart.”
“I love desperation,
It creates an opportunity to either succeed or fail to the extreme”
“There's nothing worse than being victim to your own optimism, we expect to disappoint others, but it's so much worse when we disappoint ourselves...”
“We have energy and electricity running through us just like a light switch. When you turn a light switch off the energy doesn't disappear, it still exists somewhere. That's why I believe in an afterlife. When we die our energy has to go somewhere, it's impossible for this life to simply be the end of our existence.”
“There's as much to be heard in silence as there is in a room filled with words.”
“May the Light of God be your Guide.”
“Who am I? Simply, A World Citizen!”
“I am fascinated by African history, its leaders, humanity and camaraderie. I am optimistic that one day, no African child will spend a day on an empty stomach.”
“What do you mean that does not match?? EVERYTHING goes with Eccentric!! ;)”
“In order to "find" yourself, you should take a long hard look in the mirror... For one must have a CLEAR VISION of exactly what one is looking for ;)”
“Dance to your own rhythm, sing your own song... without rhyme or reason... It doesn't even matter just as long as you do it with passion!! ;)”
“Being drowned does not necessarily mean you are about to die. Matter of fact, pursuit of any kinds of happiness start at that exact point.”
“If you want to live a happy life, tie it to a goal, not to people or things.”
“The inevitable Death permits only Knowledge as its companion and nothing else!”
“Good times and Bad times are like the Waves in nature, they come and go. Nothing stays for long!”
“Progression is a steady approach that cannot be assessed at once!”
“Imagination exemplifies Thriving minds!”
“SUCCESS WON'T HAPPEN UNLESS YOU MAKE IT HAPPEN.”
“They will label everything you do , they will call you obsessed , they will call you a freak because you are on the cusp of achieving what they thought was impossible, achieving beyond what they believe is possible.
Dig deep and rise...”
“One life for me, one life for you. One path for me, one path for you. One final glance from me, one final glance from you. I walk in the darkness for I am the light, You walk in the light for you are the darkness. No matter how far our paths may stray , in the end we shall meet again at the end of days”
“In life its Conquer or be Conquer'd ...Rule or be ruled...There is always a choice..”
“Happily expect the unexpected.”
“When the world is too much to bare.
when you fall, when you crawl.
Don't look down, look ahead, Look up, see those stars, see them shining brilliantly.
Always remember your place is among them...Never stop shinning...”
“Life isn't about trying not to make mistakes. It's about realizing those mistakes as it takes strength,courage and wisdom to recognize,learn and to not repeat them and to forgive when they have been made as well we call it a mistake for a reason...”
“Body building its not a sport, it's not a hobby, it's not a dream, it's not a life style choice. It's a part of who you are.”
“Some things are hard to see
Some things you don't want to see 
Some things you have to see
Some things you have to conquer
Some things you have to become
So when the time comes become who you always have been
Discard the mask...”
“Onwards, upwards, forwards as when you look back you will only see the past and nothing but the past.
You can't find salvation in the past or the future.
Your salvation rests in the now and only.
One must not forget the past as if lessons were not learned then we shall continue in the circle of despair never moving forward.”
“When I was too little to live, they gave me Life.”
“Help me dear Lord, to do what's right to cleave to your Word both day and night. To do what You say, day by day. This I submit and humbly pray.”
“If things in this world can die, there has to be something that doesn't die.”
“When you believe you can achieve!”
“SUCCESS IN WHATEVER YOU DO ALWAYS SILENCES THOSE WHO LAUGH AT YOU.”
“We have to keep a Sense of Humor in our failures so we can Move along with our Success!”
“There's always one thing that each one of us can do better than anyone else in the world... Be ourselves”
“NEVER WORRY WHENEVER YOU MAKE MISTAKES; WORRY ONLY WHENEVER YOU LEARN NOTHING FROM THEM.”
“Not every guy around u ,r merely for a pearl behind ur whorl,instead some r mysterious gems themselves, but in a need of "illumination" not "a girl" ,to enrich their life vth curly illusions....”
“My Visions and Skills grow Stronger each day, through perseverance and persistence it's the only way!”
“Growing through a Journey that was chosen just for Me. Living out Loud is exactly where I want to be!”
“Old friends; new friends, come and go, but the best one's are ready when it's time for the show!”
“The JOY's of Life takes us Beyond control and allow's us to Overcome!”
“I found life beyond.”
“No matter how many people know you, the key is how many people you know.”
“Living with an Ability, I didn't know existed has enhanced my Life tremendously. I am free and relaxed and able to be productive in my daily routine!”
“There is no rule saying a failed task cannot be retried, rise and try again!”
“There is always tomorrow, learning to accept self-challenging tasks is a process. Research your choice's and apply them to your abilities!”
“ I'm not perfect in many ways, and I do not claim to be. But, I learned years ago; to not sit and let the World go around, without me included, so I do the best I can with the abilities I've developed!”
“Society; has created a mask for many years, and today that mask still exists, we must remove this mask and shine like the "Sun", nature provides beyond our door!”
“United we Link, together we think!”
“Wisdom is not a product of schooling but of the lifelong attempt to acquire it”
“One man can save the world. That man is you”
“Sometimes you have to act crazy to stay sane”
“From moment to moment we can align our thoughts, feelings and deeds with God or ego. This is the meaning of choice.”
“There is little in life a good cup of tea cannot cure”
“At the end of the day, it's not how much money you make, but how much you lose.”
“Do the new, be the change.”
“Don't live to prove someone else wrong, but to prove yourself right.”
“I choose not to place "DIS", in my ability.”
“If silence is golden, I'll make noise as platinum.”
“inspiration is in us all, if you can't find it just look deeper”
“I thank God for returning me from the depths of hell, and I will not repay him by being ordinary, I WILL be EXTRODINARY.”
“Appreciation is the greatest invention of all time.”
“Every second is valuable. Don't waste it because it's not gonna come back, even if you tried as hard as you can!”
“It's Not A Problem, It's An Opportunity.”
“Obstacles are everywhere. They will bluff you if they can when they see you are afraid of them. Press on. Walk boldly through them. They are opportunities turned upside down. Knit your muscles more firmly with positive blessings and goal. And remember what strikes the oyster shell do not damage the pearl.”
“defense is more poweful than attack”
“How you hold yourself, reflects your personality.”
“Go ahead and label me, cause labels are made for gifts.”
“A positive attitude, can turn a storm into a sprinkle.”
“Every failure is just another step closer to a win. Never stop trying!”
“It only takes but one seed of peace, to create a forrest.”
“Compassion is one of the greatest forms of human expression. Learn the art!”
“"ACCESSIBILITY FOR ALL" - In the words of Ronald Reagan, "Tear down this wall".”
“Tears are the body's raindrops of emotion.”
“I have no color. I am not black or white. I have no religion or guru. I have renounced my citizenship and ethnic origin. I am neither a democrat nor a republican; I have no political affiliation. I am again as I was born, my mind empty, my heart resonating with the boundless echo of God's being. I am once again a genius.”
“Never take more out of life, than you intend to give back.”
““To find equality for mankind, we must first remove the barriers that have divided us for so long”
“Let your courage and determination be the vehicle that drives you, and takes you anywhere in this life you wanna go.”
“The opportunity to own the universe lies in our capacity to think big.”
“It only takes but a second to show ignorance, but an entire lifetime to present wisdom.”
“Life has no beginning and no ending. It only begins right after your birth and end right after your death. Do something great with your life.”
“I'm chasing my dreams straight to the top, into a sky that has no limits.”
“WALK THE TALK, IT WILL MAKE YOU TOP OF THE WORLD”
“Listen, learn, try, succeed, fail, but never quit.”
“We become beautiful when we receive love? I've finally found a reason to explain why everyone is beautiful no matter what; because God loves us all.”
““We all have an inner voice, our personal whisper from the universe. All we have to do is listen, feel, and sense it with an open heart. Sometimes it whispers of intuition or precognition. Other times, it whispers an awareness, a remembrance from another plane. Dare to listen. Dare to hear with your heart.””
“Far more wondrous than the wonders of the world are wonders of the human body . . . the Eyes, the Ears, the Nose, the Mouth, the Hands, the Head and the Heart.”
““A writer soon learns that easy to read is hard to write ...””
“Behind every problem lies mother opportunity.”
“At this stage in my life, I've finally come to realize that I've learned more from my children than they ever learned from me.”
“Appreciate the Rocks, it prevents you from sliding”
“Adults are only children with a few more years on top.”
“Real love is feeling so loved and so secure that even your name feels safe in his mouth.”
“Life is full of choices. Every breath, every minute, every path you take is a choice. To be or not be in this lifetime, that is your choice.”
“Awareness is universal, beliefs are personal. One is a quality of the force of life and the other is a quality of memory and the mind. One is based on the truth in knowing it and the other is based on opinions and ideas that pacify the mind and ego but do little to feed the heart and soul.”
“Children see fairies because they believe in them.”
“You never know how important a moment is, until it becomes a memory.”
“Is anything better than motherhood? Maybe, just maybe, grandmotherhood.”
“Don't let thoughts from your mind block feelings from your heart.”
“People are like energy. They can either cheer you or help you nurture as a person, or they can exploit your growth and make you wilt and die. Every positive thought is a seed. If you sow negativity, don’t count on yielding optimistic outcome. Surround yourself with positive people and welcome nurturing and renewed energy! There are those who give positivity, and that positivity is their reward.”
“You only live one life. It's time you chose: to live it the way you are or to live it the way others want you to live.”
“Don’t allow the enormousness of your dream to overwhelm you; focus on and conquer the simple things first. Don’t give up; ultimately you will achieve the reward.”
“I have found the missing piece for my restless soul, how I ever lived without it before.”
“Not everyone will love you the same way you love them...”
“Anything in life that is of value takes time.”
“Anything you do in life that has value takes time.”
“To chase your dreams you must first encounter and overcome your nightmares.”
“To live is certain torture”
“Certain torture is to live”
“~There comes a time in your life that not matter how much your taught, nothing can ever prepare you for things that may happen. Always remember who you are, and who you have always been. Never give up on yourself, Its amazing what you can accomplish and overcome~”
“~ Its not where you are that matters, Its where you want to be ~”
“Don't waste your time trying to fix your past ...
Because your past is already gone....”
“Everybody counts—the Happy ones Count their Blessings and the sad ones Count their Troubles.”
“If we do not live on the weekends then what are we living for.”
“Victims see problems, winners see challenges.”
“Life is like a clock, all it does is repeat itself.”
“never depress by negative result, just look at the effort.”
“you are the one, the only one, who can do anything. you just need to know your ability and capability.”
“YOUR LIFE IS A TEMPLATE TO MANY PEOPLE; MAKE IT AN INSPIRATION TO THEM.”
“I'm happy to be on this earth, and I'm happy to be who I am, and blessed, too.”
“DON'T ALWAYS FOCUS ON YOUR CHALLENGES; BUT ON YOUR DREAM, FOR IT'S BIGGER THAN WHATEVER CHALLENGES YOU FACE IN LIFE.”
“you can do anything what you want, you require the thing is just patience and your dedication.”
“FAITH IS THE NECESSITY BY WHICH WE KEEP MOVING NO MATTER WHAT WE GO THROUGH IN LIFE.”
“I often find myself talking to myself; I find I give myself unusually useful advice.”
“Dance with the music and I promise you that the music will dance back.”
“Criticizing others and pointing out their faults, is an assholes way of hiding their own! Not all of us can be as awesome as an asshole o.O but we are apart of the biggest group the world has ever seen...the, Who Gives a Shit what you Think Movement!!!!”
“IN LIFE, GOALS ARE ALWAYS WORTH STRUGGLING FOR.”
“Religion was manufactured to create order in the world.”
“An eye for an eye makes the whole world blind”
“Suspend Disbelief”
“If You want to be at Supreme Top..
You must possess some 'EGO'..
#AceTalksTruth- Din(Aceman)”
“we all made mistakes in our past but we have to get over them so we can have better future”
“I've learned that no matter what happens, or how bad it
seems today, life does go on, and it will be better tomorrow. I've learned that
you can tell a lot about a person by the way he/she handles these three things:
a rainy day, lost luggage, and tangled Christmas tree lights. I've learned that
regardless of your relationship with your parents, you'll miss them when they're
gone from your life. I've learned that making a living is not the same thing as
making a life. I've learned that life sometimes gives you a second chance. 
I've learned that you shouldn't go through life with a catcher's mitt on both
hands; you need to be able to throw some things back. I've learned that whenever
I decide something with an open heart, I usually make the right decision. I've
learned that even when I have pains, I don't have to be one. I've learned that
every day you should reach out and touch someone. People love a warm hug, or
just a friendly pat on the back. I've learned that I still have a lot to learn. 
I've learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you
did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.”
“No mirror can ever keep you the same nor your brain. Let it go!
You are never what you were.”
“before we break the bread, we must first make the bread”
“If you're tired of starting over, stop giving up!”
“Be the person today you were too lazy to be yesterday.”
“The future belongs to the Bold and the Brave. Passionate Enthusiasm, Courageous Vision, Resolute Commitment and Daring Efforts are essential for success.”
“Where has the AMERICAN dream gone ?”
“If you go through life angry you will end up with nothing but you and your anger.”
“Prosperity in america is almost extinct.”
“every day life in the great recession is mostly normal but running a profitable business is a out right miracle”
“Sometimes you have to take a stand. Don't expect to win any popularity contests for it. After letting people have their way for so long, they won't like the change. Either they will get used to it or they will leave. Regardless, you will be happier in the end. Stay the course.”
“The opinions of others do not define who we are. Remember that how we see ourselves, is the most critical factor in determining our self-worth.”
“Capture the moment. As you will never have it again.”
“If you live life in the moment and don't think about tomorrow you might wake up 50 years old eating cold soup out of the tin can it came in”
“Sometimes we are just so much happier without certain people in our lives. Never hold onto someone who just brings you down.”
“Why is minimum wage a number that is set in stone why don't we treat minimum wage rates like taxes the more money a corporation profits the higher the minimum wage rate they should have to pay.”
“Local businesses are under attack by an in invading army of franchisees. the mom & pops are a dying breed”
“All franchises are un AMERICAN they are a dictatorship that make it almost impossible for pride of ownership and customer serves to survive”
“Don't make life more confusing, crazy, or complicated than it needs to be.”
“I am a NEW YORKER which means i work full time and live my life part time”
“You can make more friends in two months by becoming more interested in other people than you can in two years by trying to get people interested in you”
“My main focus in life is to die rich”
“Your dreams and goals to be attained are merely a date on the calendar you simply don't know of yet.”
“TO INSPIRE THE WORLD, WE MUST FIRST INSPIRE OURSELVES.”
“Ruling with an iron fist, or treating people with silk gloves, both give different results.. Rather reach out to people with a human hand and see the world change for the better.”
“Too Many Cooks May Spoil the Broth But Discussing The Recipe Can't Hurt.”
“Having what you want may give you Achievement. But wanting what you have will give you Fulfillment.”
“Faith of Great Men draws hope for all mankind”
“God created Dog, for when men forget love, a dog can show them how”
“"The ultimate thrill to oneself in making your lifelong DAY Dream a Reality, is the INNER Phenomenal Satisfaction of painting the MoNa LiSA that YOUR mind Created & Inspired, then Completing the Masterpiece with Pride & Glory, by initialing your Success with BELIEVING in your DESTINY and sharing your Love & Soul with the WORLD ....The Legacy will SPEAK YOUR Purpose for PASSION" - IONA LUDICK”
“If you let anyone tie your Wings with Strings, you can never Fly in the Sky! Your Independence, Your Freedom is Your Biggest Gift.”
“Is it equality for a woman to be asked all through her life if she is Miss, Ms, Mrs or may be we could just say something like Mr and be done with it”
“Be yourself, dont wear the mask because you will forget who you are from inside.”
“People aren't either evil or noble. They're like chef's salads, with fine things and terrible things chopped and mixed as one in vinaigrette of misunderstanding and disagreement”
“My inspiration to adapt to change is a middle class demon who can’t afford the upper class sins.”
“Making the change from poverty to middle class is a 12 round boxing match. but the the change from middle class to wealthy will be a fight to the death”
“Become the employee you want to employ”
“Life doesn't truly begin until we can rest comfortably in our own skin.”
“I am not interested in winning every battle. I do not care about a win that will compromise my values and principles. Wrong is wrong, be true to your beliefs no matter the price. That my friends, it’s called Integrity.”
“It gets worse before it gets better.”
“I didn't come into you're life to watch you sleep. I came to make sure you're awake.”
“Life is our gift to the heavens; and our spectators, watch from the stars.”
“Don’t be afraid of being Happy. You deserve to be Happy.”
“What does it take to live like a Kennedy”
“The world is my oyster. How far it opens is completely up to me.”
“If I were born a comedian, I would see the irony in life and die laughing.”
“You must be present in the present to make it a present.”
“A tea bag does not know its own strength until it lands in hot water.”
“What does life, writing and wrapping a skein of yarn into a ball have in common? Once you start, you can’t stop until the string reaches the end.”
“Master craftsmen are a thing of the past, replaced by unskilled labor and technology”
“When did free enterprise become the slogan for America,What happened to united we stand and divided we fall”
“Let the children speak of art”
“You may fail time and time again, but never concede to failure.”
“Your tongue will make or break you,it will give and take from you more than you can imagine,handlle that powerful weapon with care.”
“Impact is relative. It depends on who you're telling, what you're telling them, and why.”
“If you cant beat them buy them”
“Why are we so deeply indebted to china,When we already gave them all our jobs”
“I don't want to just be another black man; I want to be the greatest black man.”
“If your presence did not make an impact, then your absence will not make a difference.”
“Never be ashamed of the scars that life has left you with. A scar means the hurt is over, wound is closed, you endured the pain and Allah has healed you.”
“Subjects taught in medical school lead to desensitization.  Remember how to relate and Inspire: THIS is the way to help to activate the healing systems in patients.  These powers extend beyond the prescription pad.”
“Health care reforms where people discuss legislation and "plans of plans" is the fastest way to a dead end.  Circulation of stagnant ideas, and attempt at their re-organization is never rejuvenating for a system.”
“Each minute is a reflection of the hours of my life.  Each hour is a reflection of my days.  Each day is a reflection of my years. Each year is a reflection of the direction of my life.  How well you spend the microscopic time of your life determines the whole of the journey.”
“As a painter of your own life, see the color of your desired outcome in the palate of your mind first, in appreciative expectation of what it will be like; before you can experience it as the physical brushstroke on the canvas that is your life.”
“The error in controlling thoughts as a main focus is that anything of the mind will always be less than that generated through the heart; whose closest concept of thought is the infinite shades of love it exudes.”
“what keeps me going is the fact that there is someone out there who wants to be in my "shoes"..yes,mine are worn&over worked but all that other person prays for are "shoes" & so i make the most of the ones i have on.”
““Focus allows the structure of anything to be known at any level. Imagine zooming in on anything enough; what does it become but full potential?””
““Just as we are placed here to help out our fellow man, so it is that,  if we look for it, each encounter is their blessing for us. For we  are all on our own paths, but we are inexplicably draped and layered together on our way. Our well-being is built upon our interaction.””
“Their is some peace in this world because there are some people who tolerates others.”
“If your giving away knowledge, make sure you get acknowledged!”
“Yes..!,That's right.! It's a medley Melodrama parody...but this is ample time to OutDO & trod.”
“Always do what you are afraid to do.”
“Sometimes when there's no one to talk to, you find out that yourself makes a great listener.”
“When there is no way, you should make your own way.”
“Let today be better than yesterday, and tomorrow be better than today.”
“The heart has so little beats, live your life to the fullest.”
“Poverty is an opportunity to earn riches the hard & wise way.”
“Greatness is achieving something unimaginable and doing that feat with ease”
“Far more than the shield is the Pleasure I get on the field . . . the Joy of the chase is greater than the result of the race.”
“Quit trying to swim upstream, float down it.”
“Any flame glows brighter in the dark, so your best opportunities to glow and shine bright are during your dark days.”
“If you are too busy worrying about the future, then you will miss all the special things in life that are happening right now.”
“The most beautiful thing, is life itself.”
“am just a young Individual with a wonderful mind ready to share its wonders”
“With Time, you can create Money, but with Money you cannot create Time. So Time is more valuable than Money.”
“You don't need to work anymore to make money,It is legal to steal now a days as long as your incorporate”
“Help the unknown”
“You are never going to achieve anything by saying, "I will... next time". You will achieve your goals by saying, "i will, starting now!"”
“I want to lead my children by example. I want to teach them that dreams should never be forgotten, that part of true happiness is being in love with what you do. But one lesson I want my kids to remember after I’m gone is that the fight for love and passion is something worth dying for.”
“To care for and to protect is written in our genetic code. As men, it’s who we are.
And I think the embers of the man we will become begin to spark and crackle as we grow older out of our childhood, but burst to flame when we must fulfill our duty as guardian and father”
“On Becoming a Young Dad: How unfortunate it is to be dismissed because of a number, but how fortunate I am to have the opportunity to prove my worth.”
“When we are forced to adapt to something unknown to us, we learn things about ourselves. This knowledge helps us to flourish. If you fight it, this process is damaged. Accept change for what it is: a chance to learn, to grow, and to succeed.”
“Beauty does not lie in the eye of the beholder, but lies in the mind of the beholder. A blind man feels and knows what is beautiful. The eye deceives more than it informs.”
“Read books. Ask questions. Don’t settle. Try new foods. Listen to new music. Face down your fears. Play videogames. Go to that party. Visit an old friend. Make a new one. Say hello. Say goodbye. Challenge what is and fight for what could be.
But no matter what, always remain as the student.”
“Read nothing,become Nobody”
“To learn who a person truly is, watch what they do when they are broken down and reduced to nothing. Once you have achieved rock bottom, knowledge of who you really are can be discovered. You can use this to succeed in all that you wish to do. Seek the help you may need, and then rebuild.”
“Expectation is the birthplace of all human misery.”
“Knowledge; that which empowers us so too destroys us!”
“Don't expect people to always understand you. Instead, learn to understand them. Then Accept, Forgive & Love unconditionally. This is a sure way to be Happy.”
“Ignorance is no excuse for failure; observe, learn, then conquer.”
“Parents are role models in guiding, leading and teaching to their own children but never a maid.”
“All of us search for greatness in ourselves and fail because it is others who have to find greatness is us first before we ever find it ourselves.”
“You grow bigger when you think bigger but not always thinking.”
“If the anecdote to your life is the depiction of a ocean, Make sure the ocean is in the grasp of a vicious storm and not a calm flat monotonous rhythmic clock going by like time tick tick tick...”
““to explore is to find. to theorise is to know. to learn is to live.””
“Success is simple; don’t complicate what’s meant to be simple.”
“Within the realm of gratitude, I am granted with even greater reasons to be thankful.”
“Dreams, like seeds of intentions - Keep in the sun of your thoughts - water with hope.”
“It may be a winding path; it may be longer, though its mysteries make it much more interesting.”
“Whatever your path, its treasures you've created.”
“Obstacles is the way that leads to life's advancement & only the wise recognize this fact.”
“The greatest examples of human ignorance and arrogance is believing that you are the body, the mind and the doer of actions.”
“Follow a well beaten path or carve out your own -either way, the experience will be uniquely yours - your very own.”
“Let go and live in the moment! The struggle comes from clutching. When I let go of the burden of my expectations, the illusion of control and look beyond the limited horizons of how I want the world to be, I open myself to possibilities too big to fit into my head.”
“Resting in the question is embracing uncertainty, knowing the answer will unfold in its own time. And this is really the practice of simply living. While not always easy, it is a necessary process that frees me and makes me a clear vessel for the unexpected gifts the universe has in store me.”
“To live without passion, is to deny the essence of life!”
“If you could be you 10 years from now, what advice would you give yourself today?”
“The reality is nobody has a perfect life, everybody experiences ups and downs. But what everybody does have is happy memories whatever they may be. So when you are feeling down or upset, switch on those memories. I bet you will never turn them off.”
“The fruits of success are born from the seeds of enterprise & perseverance.”
“Respect to gain respect. Motivate to get motivated. Inspire to get inspired. Help to get helped. Love to get loved.”
“The worst, but best position, a middle man, because the result is unpredictable.”
“Forget the Past. Focus on the present. Don't look to far ahead in the future. Because it depends on how YOU live your life now. That's the reason why life was given. Life is what you make of it at this very moment and Not by the mistakes you made or the plans you changed. Continue living life and continue taking chances. - Bryan X”
“You live by music, I live by quotes, a quote is music just without the melody.”
“Life is about creating, not acquiring.”
“The ability to remain silent amidst great provocation is the hallmark of wisdom.”
“A man who relentlessly perspires to be excellent evidently inspires many with his intelligence and elegance.”
“You only know what you've been told”
“You only know what you've been told”
“I have no complains with the humans any longer....since I came to know the truth of my owns shadow ...its with me only during the day time and leave me alone in dark in the night......”
“People will either lift you up, put you down, or keep you stagnant. Choose your company wisely.”
“Just because you are what you are, where you are, that does not mean you should continue to be there.”
“You are always richer than you think, look around and you will second me.”
“Simple things make us Happy but we pursue the complicated. We get caught in a maze and Happiness remains a Distant Dream.”
“Don't base your decisions on what's "socially acceptable". Norms of society change quickly. Base them on morals and values and you will seldom need to think twice about your decisions.”
“If it is broken then it cannot be fixed, but if it is damaged then there is hope.”
“True love is the desire for another person's happiness, and the contentment in knowing you're not a part of it.”
“Tell them the truth, they will dislike you but if you feed them lies, they will praise you.”
“It is what it is, but it isn't what it was.”
“Somewhere among all the lies, cries and broken promises, I stopped loving you.”
“Ignorance will kill you before poverty does”
“Believe in what isn't as if it were, until it becomes.”
“Never let someone else's behavior determine your character.”
“We salute the Brain, that made the Plane and the Train…But who made the Brain?”
“You will never have the time for anything. If you want the time you must make it.”
“The best failure to witness in life is the failure to quit.”
“Perseverance is the hard work you do after you get tired of the hard work you already did.”
“GIVE YOUR CHILD A DREAM AND THEY WILL NEVER STOP.”
“"The difference between me and you is, I don't just say it I put my pencil to work and do it." - Hill,S,L,.”
“If God is really in it, then you must be in it to win it.”
“We need to be comfortable in what people say there going to do; never should we be confident.”
“It's not what they think about you. It's what you think about you, that make you think about what they think about you.”
“The universe spontaneously provides the moment with whatever it needs to sustain and maintain itself.”
“I’m not in competition with any human being. I'm way too busy competing with myself." - Hill, S, L,.”
“It's only hard being you, because you trying to be someone else. Free yourself and be the only you.”
“the harshest of truths always outdoes the most sincere of lies”
“a life lived without friends, is a life worth no memories”
“Don't wait for anything; set your sights and dig in!”
“Emotions are like a virus, a common cold, disrupting the flow of logic in people's minds.”
“I despise disrespect more than I fear death; without respect, I am dead already.”
“begin every day remembering that yesterday doesnt matter,
tomorrow will be better,
and today will be the day you make everything possible”
“You don't have to tell me, I already know.”
“The world will judge u for they haven't realize that one can channel heaven and darkness, and still be Holy for holiness is just a balance”
“Trust is when faith takes shape in one's action.”
“Living life with self pity, imprisons your potential and
Living life with self confidence, releases your pontential~Lebogang Marumo 2013”
“I am the greatest, I said that even before I knew I was.”
“We always achieve the level of who we are. Our successes and failures depend on the feelings and ideas we have, the courage and doubts we feel, the actions we take and the level of motivation we apply”
“Ask yourself this question; would you rather be happy, believing in a lie or sad, believing in the truth.”
“The Brightest moment is the realization of a memory foreseen.”
“The proudest moment is the materialization of a memory foreseen.”
“The grandest moment is the actualization of a memory foreseen.”
“A miracle only happens when you are ready to take it to the next level.”
“Confronting our fears, make them less powerful, less harmful and more helpful.~Lebogang Marumo 2013”
“When the challenges try to push you forward towards being many things on this world. Push them back backwards towards being onething on this world, Yourself~Lebogang Marumo 2013”
“To reach a special place within this world. You must always make sure you head up your life with big steps of faith not with small steps of fear.”
“Fear of unknown can only be eliminated by making it your ally.”
“There are three versions of things: the one you see in your mind, the one that carries onto the paper, and then what it ultimately becomes.”
“We can change so many times in our lives. We're born into a family, and it's the only life we can imagine, but the next second we're someplace else entirely, going through different motions and trying to keep up with this new person we have become.”
“We can't avoid to fall. But we can avoid to stay down after falling.”
“Life is not fair; the faster you comprehend and except this, the better.”
“If you can't do anything about it, don't let it do anything to you.”
“Being born is certain, Death will come, But whats in between is the adventure, It starts when you take the risk.”
“The rarest jewel you hold in your hands is my heart, forever it will be yours to hold close.”
“Don't let Self-important jackass who has no regard for the affairs of others and often says things that ruin the moment, spoil your day.”
“The meaning of life: to embrace every moment in the absence of suffering.”
“Change is inevitable but God is definite.”
“Never ask ‘How’ in love & ‘Why’ in failure.”
“If humans were perfect, there would be no change or alteration and no need to move forward.”
“If following my conviction to save my people against tyranny then i would say.. i have made the most rightful sin in my entire life.”
“If you can’t believe then you can’t achieve. Belief is intrinsic to every human; so what are you waiting for? Go ahead and get what you believe to achieve.”
“The heart is the soul of the body, it always has the need for love and to be loved, but your mind is were your actions are which is separate from the soul, without a mind your soul will push to fulfill your needs and sometimes it may not be the right one.”
“Don't lose today …for today is guaranteed but tomorrow is not.”
“Sometime you fall into a small ditch because the good Lord is preventing you from running full speed into a wall.”
“Life is a big struggle, don't you mind those little troubles, there will always be obstacles, stand firm and never give up.”
“ if i don't tell the world what i can do, they will never know
if i don't show the world what i can do ,they will never believe ”
“ It's not , if it's possible or not ,
I do it because , I want to ”
“Wisdom is not gained from knowledge, but from experience.”
“Hero's have scars and struggles as well, it's just that they have the courage to stand up against what is wrong because that makes them different.”
“Loving a child doesn't mean giving in to all his whims; to love him is to bring out the best in him, to teach him to love what is difficult.”
“Since there is no way to Live after you die, why not Live Now!”
“Early morning meditations are the best, setting the tone for an entire day.”
“In the world of belief impossibilities fear to reign.”
“On your journey, when you run into a wall that is high and wide, take a detour. To your surprise, you might find that you're on the right track after all.”
“Life is tough, but God is enough”
“Give your best leave the rest no matters what happens after the test.”
“Religion is by fear not by faith, have faith no God will say follow my religion, for He is the only God and we named Him.”
“Sorrows are momentary, don't let your soul rest under its shade.”
““If life is really too short, then why bring your past into your now.” -Hill, S, L,.”
“They are your Thoughts, Choose them wisely...”
“Love your wives, as much as you love the church.”
“Once you raise your own child and you will comprehend the hardship of your parents.
– Chinese proverb”
“Live well and be spoiled by simplicity.”
“I love people who hate me, cause it lets me know I'm doing something right.”
“To be control is prison, to have self control is to be free.”
“Lets spread 'Inner Peace' like the most contagious virus the world has ever known.”
“Married love between a man & woman, man & man and woman & woman is an oaths based on unconditional love and is a human right.”
“Time tells us our past, present and future.”
“Looks get you noticed, your personality gets you married.”
“Excuses are all that stand between yourself and greatness.”
“Scientists and researchers will discover nothing, except and only those things which GOD has chosen to reveal.”
“Make hay, not only when the sun shines, but also when the rain falls and whenever the opportunity comes to you.”
“GOD has not given me the ability to change people but rather the mandate to help them discover change.”
“When others crawl, WALK; when they walk, RUN; when they run, FLY; when they fly, Disappear! Just stay ahead.”
“we all focus but only those who focus rightly get the best result in life.”
“What you didn't think, you can't reason and what you can't reason cannot be scored.”
“I don't fear of becoming zero as I know the art of writing one before it.”
“Why? Some things just are.”
“Change requires an abundant amount of energy. Once complete though, a much smaller amount of energy is then needed in order to maintain, yet again.”
“It's easy to inspire others compared to inspire youself!”
“Selfbelieve is a passport to ones dreams and action is a transport to them.”
“Passion simply means the doing more of what makes the heart happy, not the crowd and The doing less of what makes the heart unhappy within the world”
“Life is a Treasure Hunt and we all have the key to it. Unfortunately, many of us don’t unlock it, but take the key to our grave.”
“A seed sown today, brings promise for tomorrow”
“Motivation can come from many things; friends, family, money, fame, power, satisfaction..the list goes on but inspiration comes from you. There's a fine line between motivation and inspiration but inspiration is a surge of want to do something and only when that is achieved you feel that sense of internal fulfilment.”
“Why must we continue to follow the path of solitude?
We tend to only look down as we walk because of the shame to look up.
But why are we so ashamed?
We are unique. Each and every one of us. That's why we should lift our heads, be proud of who you are. Before your head plucks into the sand as an ostritch does.”
“"Our duty as soldiers, is to protect humanity. Whatever the cost."
-Master Chief
"You say that like solidiers and humanity are two different things. Soldiers aren't machines... We're just people."
-Thomas Laskey”
“In the end, your life’s painting will look exactly how you painted it.”
“To reach unparalleled success one must learn to lose money in order to make a future decision unencumbered by the fear of loss”
“"One who hones their weaknesses, and overcomes them, can move on even stronger than ever before.”
“The only diffrence between you and him is the difference which you think between him and you”
“What's there to fear, what's there to worry, as long as I am alive, it's all good.”
“Time will have its place, and every place will have its time...”
“Math is not a creation of man; it's a creation of nature. Numbers are simply a translation of that language.”
“Be proud of yourself as there is none like you.”
“I was on the edge, I was confused and disoriented. As I was about to fall, I was saved, by that bond we had made.
Now, I will not faultier. I will only pick myself up and keep walking. I overcame this gash in my life, and I only accept it. That's what makes me, me. I become stronger through my experiences, and I keep on walking.”
“Shame is internal never external. Shame internalizes then it seeks an external place to lay rest. Shame doesn’t exist in places and things. No one can shame you, for it already exists within yourself.”
“When life throws its curve ball it is our job to step up to the plate and hit that ball the other direction twice as fast”
“As a man thinks in his heart so is he,our constant thoughts have the capacity to shape our characters & beliefs.”
“If becoming rich and successful was easy than everybody would be.”
“Thing about life is you only need to understand your choices. The rest should be drowned out with a track by MCR...”
“A simple smile can save someone's life.”
“Sometimes life calls for us to step off the sidelines and take matters into our own hands and make a change in order to benefit our life while benefiting the life of someone else.”
“Sometimes you have to realize: I can’t, but we can.”
“My body is labelled an age in the form of a number. My mind is as old as all the bodies I have had. My Self is eternal.”
“There are some who try to bear the weight of the world by themselves. But, as humans we are too weak to do it by ourselves. We need someone to help bear that weight. For when you do so, you become truly strong.”
“If time is all we have, then time is all we need...”
“Nothing , absolutely nothing needs to happen for you to be happy.”
“Knowledge is not power without Action and Clarity.”
“Live a life full of abundance and you become abundant.”
“My definition of wealth is this - Wealth is what you have left after all your possessions are taken away from you.”
“Forgiveness is the express pathway to Freedom.”
“Are you feeling poor - change the currency that you use - the currency of love, friendship, camaraderie, gratitude, peacefullness, joy, and freedom.”
“You have eyes and ears but do you truly see and hear ?”
“What if every day was New Years Day - would you make resolutions every day that you would not keep ?”
“Look for the greatness in others and you shall truly find it.”
“Always be willing to see the world from the other's perspective, without judgement -that alone will give you much insight and compassion.”
“Nothing, absolutely nothing needs to happen for you to be happy.It is a choice.”
“When you remove the fear from your life you will fill this up with creativity, love, beauty, joy clarity, energy, and success etc.”
“The fundamental frustration in life is trying to fit a square into a triangle.”
“There is no competition in self empowerment.”
“When you pull out your nine-inch water gun, don’t become angered when your opponent pulls out their super-soaker. Confess and repent you brought the wrong water gun.”
“Prepare YOURSELF today, as if the examination is tomorrow”
“Do not tarnish my life with tears of sadness when I die, instead celebrate the joy I brought to the world and laugh at the stupid things I did.”
“Life is about who you love and who you hurt. It's about faith, glee, and kindness. Life is about shunning envy; rising above lack of knowledge, and building self-confidence. It's about what you utter and what you imply. It’s about seeing people for who they are and not what they have. The majority of all, it is about choosing to use your life to touch someone else's in a way that could by no means have been realize otherwise. These choices are what life's about.”
“Anyone can kill a human, but cannot kill d dreams of that human”
“The rivers to my mind are deep as they are wide, the calm you see is only masking my crazy undertone...”
“Only love can inspire us to sacrifice”
“Life is not a puzzle to solve. Stop, Enjoy the Journey!”
“Destiny, an inevitable fate crafted by your potentials and aimed by your choices.”
“God does not give big things instantly because every small thing grows.”
“Promises are like fake tattoos, you keep them for awhile but eventually they wear off.”
“Time may be a finely woven thread, yet it holds our yesterday, today and tomorrow together...”
“Don't look back unless it's to see how far you've come.”
“Your vision of the future is largely what determines your level of optimism today.”
“Enlightenment is becoming a light unto yourself.”
“If your thoughts aren't inspiring you, they are expiring you.”
“If your thoughts aren't inspiring you, they are expiring you.”
“You asked about important factors in management. I think the answer is quite simple – the most important factor is motivation.”
“Daily gratitude & optimism invite an auspicious life.”
“Right on the edge of trying more harder than you think you can. Begins your dream.”
“Challenges don't destroy people. Challenges build people”
“You can stand first in line at the door of destiny, but only you can open it and walk through...”
“Be patient to get whatever you want.”
“If a bird stops flying for a while, is it still a bird?”
“Generosity is everywhere.”
“In Life, while you must achieve and you must do your best to achieve, don’t forget to enjoy Life because the Journey will be soon over.”
“Don't give the people more than what they deserve, because if we irrigate the plant a lot of water, it will die”
“Its not about handling the ride, its about handling the places the ride will take you...”
“Life is what happens to you while you're busy making other plans”
“Devotion and strength are some of the masterpieces, life has gifted my heart with. Although i am grateful for these blessings, i will wait for my Prince to begin my happily ever after...”
“There's no single rock bottom. Life has several ones: each time you fall flat and crushed, new hope and hundreds of possibilities are born”
“Be unpredictable and change everything...”
“Resistance in life is the unconscious desire for change without the conscious will to enact it.”
“No negative situation can ever overcome the mind that has been deliberately tuned to the positive channel of life.”
“Deep within you lies an original masterpiece, you will either let the world see it or you won't...”
“Stepping stones to the top don't always go up”
“Wake up each day and live your life like a maniac”
“Once God has given you the heart to love, do not be afraid nor waste it. Do not throw it or take it for granted. Once God has given you the man you prayed for, take really good care of it. Cherish it, love it. Be proud of it!”
“Crises is the oyster for success.”
“Most optimistic people didn't live in happy circumstances; but by choosing to stay positive, they took hardship and turned it into power.”
“Many will want you to get defeated in your purpose. But keep in mind, they never had a purpose beyond their ego”
“It's not life that is giving you the hard time: it's the people, the situation, the place you're at. Don't go blaming life giving you hell. When life is given by God, it's His biggest blessing. You should treasure it.”
“He prayed for a house from the power that is effortlessly building galaxies and universes.”
“God is more caring
for you than you are for
yourself.”
“Concentrate more on today, and less on yesterday.”
“The success journey
isn’t worthwhile without the
challenges we encounter.”
“You can either live the way you want to or the way others want you to. Choose wisely.”
“Time can only give you the spares of a situation but only you have to combine it to make a situation.”
“In excellent customer service there are 3P's: professional, pleasant and patience.”
“Speak the word,for a well spoken word good or evil goes ahead to prepare ground for its manifestation.”
“If you trust no one you don't trust yourself.”
“A lack of life is a life without trust.”
“The future is the great unknown however; there is nothing preventing you from preparing for it.”
“It’s not a matter of keeping one day holy for God, but we are to keep ourselves holy each day for Him!--- Mordecai Uka Dike”
“To achieve internal purity filter what you watch and what you listen to! --- Mordecai Uka Dike”
“Your inward perception determines your outward transformation! Let your focus be on Christ! ---Mordecai Uka Dike”
“I have my vision, in which I strive-
With values before me, my reasons to thrive-
No outward influences, changing this mind-
Limitless advancement, despite the affliction in every way-
Mind never failing before body, regardless of pain-
It is by choice to live this way each day-
Committing my plans to God, while stopping at nothing-
I will have my way.”
“Hardship does one thing,it emboldens you to think tougher & bigger.”
“Dream- Pursue- Achieve.”
“Maybe the meaning of life, is to give life a meaning.”
“When it comes to smoking, quitters always win.”
“Just take another shot, because one more shot might be all you have got...”
“To THOSE I have hurt subconsciously, Sorry...
To THOSE who think you know me...cool...but you don't.
To THOSE who love me despite of being me, Thanks...
To YOU who pushed me quite far...Thanks too..:)
and... To YOU who has my heart right now...I'm Hoping...”
“Stillstand ist Zeitverschwendung und somit Energieverschwendung”
“No one Understand any one's situation, They only knows How to Blame...”
“You make the Choice and thereafter that Choice makes you. You create your Dream and thereafter that Dream creates you.”
“If we are to survive we all must live as one.”
“I may fall. But, I will pick myself up and walk away.”
“Give me a minute - Am good. I get an Hour - Am Great. Give me Six Months - Am unbeatable.”
“Time will inspire awe”
“The best we can do is to do our best.”
“I don't know what the next minute hold, but I do my best to hold now for the next minute.”
“Only believe because that day shall come.”
“The wise respond. The foolish react. The wise think & then act. The foolish act and then regret.”
“When people say you will find the one like: ''There are plenty of fish in the sea.'' And ''One day, you will find your knight in shining armor.'' I tell and ask. ''Why isn't my line catching any? And ''Well that one day, he dies in battle, unable to see me.''”
“When I wield this blade, I carry the weight of a life, that's the weight of my blade, the weight of a single life.”
“Being alive is a privilege, don't waste it. Live it.”
“Sometimes you will lose and Sometimes you will win but always don't give up.”
“Discouragements doesnt define the souls destiny. What defines the souls destiny, is known by heart of the soul and the creator of the soul.”
“"If at any point of time, you feel stuck, it should be only beautiful memories, not a dead end. " - Shelly Mittal”
“The moment I welcomed truth all was denied to lie.”
“If you can read this then you have made it! Congratulations on surviving your life till now. Welcome to the rest your life where crazy lives down the hall and nothing is ever what it seems, dreams are burned daily to power the world...”
“I believe that one day we will all be free, on this day our time on earth will be done...”
“Dreaming is free, wishing is free, it doesn't need any currency but only God knows who soon you can be.”
“I have seen many Khans performing their career duties successfully- Shah Rukh Khan, Salman Khan, Aamir Khan. I have seen many Khans getting respect, fame, high stature. And I have seen many Khans doing social work for the betterment of society.
But I have never seen a Khan like IMRAN KHAN.”
“Inside the human mind, an idea is a mental spark that occurs as a response to the challenge of a train of thought.”
“Enriching your life is not instant, but the road to enriching other lives is instantly at our fingertips. – Cindy Kyparissis”
“Do you want to resolve a conflict successfully? Don't wait, start a conversation.”
“Always try to do what you have never did because if you succeded you will be happy and if you fail you will be wise.”
“Sometimes people think the old days were better than today. Even though life was simpler and slower, it was not necessarily easier.”
“Asking someone to change is like raising hand against master's creativity.”
“When life treats you bad, just suck it up and stand tall. For it will only make you stronger.”
“Don't be afraid to be a dreamer. You never know what the future would bring”
“Don't give a shit about what others might say. Believe in yourself, and nothing else matter.”
“Success doesn't come from a gifted mind, it is the result of hard work and determination.”
“It was already said and done at the Cross, were just walking out what was said and done.”
“ If it's a habit, it's not a hassle”
“The key to good mental health and well-being is calming the mind.”
“Our mind is like a messy room. When clear we can find everything we actually need.”
“Teenager "You think the answer to everything is meditation"
Me " Yes,tell me a situation that wouldn't benefit from a clam mind"”
“Life is eternal; and love is immortal; and death is only a horizon; and a horizon is nothing save the limit of our sight.”
“God is the true source of joy and gladness; therefore, we do not need to find other artificial ways of getting inspiration and satisfaction”
“Everybody needs an inspiration.”
“The freedom to fail is just a part of success.”
“Those who lay their own path before them are enjoying life much more than others.”
“People ask – how can I enjoy life when I have problems? You may have problems, but you can still enjoy life and be Happy.”
“There will be a time in your life, that you get stuck with something grave. That for whatever reasons, you just can't think of other options but death. When that time comes, think the other way. Because if a circle has no sides, it will always have a center.”
“Life will be a memory someday, start decorating it from today.”
“Life will be a memory someday, start decorating it from today.”
“You are no Dodo no matter how tough it may be you can still fly, as long as you can remember that you have wings”
“Banish impure thoughts,they only make you feel worthless”
“I am not trying to be better than anyone else, I am only trying to be better than myself.”
“I am not trying to be better than anyone else, I am only trying to be better than myself.”
“Each type of knowledge has value; however, from an engineering point of view, practical knowledge seems to be more valuable than theoretical knowledge.”
“A fairy-tale life exists only in fairy tales.”
“Sapped of strength, I discover a self that doesn't rely on strength.”
“Once your life stands against an environment where others are considered to be in harmony with their circumstance, this is where elevation leads to salvation.”
“For some, life is a trip in the daylight; for others, it's a journey through night.”
“Love is always patient and kind. It is never jealous. Love is never boastful or conceited. It is never rude or selfish. It does not take offense and is not resentful. Love takes no pleasure in other people’s sins, but delights in the truth. It is always ready to excuse, to trust, to hope, and to endure whatever comes.”
“You will only find what you are looking for.”
““Life is a forever learning lesson. It’s all about how we handle situations every day and not letting things get in our way to stop us from doing the things we want to do in life and be happy. And to be happy with the things we have in front of us right now.””
“Why look at the underbelly of wonderful?”
“The key thing I hope you guys remember from this point on is to try to turn any type of life negative into a positive.”
“Ambition's true reward can only be gotten without ambition's trade.”
“I was always the kid people looked at and said would never amount to anything. For me, that was a challenge. I attribute all the positive in my life to all the negative people gave me.”
“The light of God exposes the dark evil bed of lust, and the sheets that are engrossed with pleasures.”
“A man can not treat you like his queen if you have the mindset of a princess.”
“No matter how much deep the darkness is, light will always tear it apart.”
“A hug can remove a bug.”
“Let's not be discouraged by the negativities of the world. All we have to do is amplify our inner light and drive away the shadows.”
“Before you start to consider your limits, you should consider that you were born limitless.”
“The truth isn’t lost, for it can only be recognized when you admit that you are.”
“Be vigilant family, for our loved ones are suffering and need prayer. Stand watch at the helm and man this ship, for we are their anchor.”
“When you think you're in hell, hang in there and keep fighting long enough to beat the Devil.”
“Always keep a diamond in your mind.”
“What is the meaning of life?
We don't know for sure but, I think it was to give some light in a dark world. Life is not a meaning, it is a gift, take that gift and use it for what it was meant to be.”
“This is game time. We’ve been able to come together as a team last minute and put together some great focus as a team. Our race is at the end of the Olympics, so the anticipation of watching the two-man has gotten us excited. Now it’s our opportunity to come out and shine.”
“strive to be something more, and you will change the world”
“Conquer you dreams an you will conquer the world.”
“An excuse doesn't change the fact that you are wrong”
“Procrastinating is putting off your life instead of living It. It’s the key to lose your present life.”
“Have you ever had the feeling that you are so sure about your future. Probably not. Ironically, that’s the reason why you are not sure about yourself and therefor future. Be sure now, and start welcoming the future when It’s coming to you.”
“You get the feeling that you are hundred percent accurate when you are doing something peacefully, forgetting about the time therefor yourself. You break your limits.”
“When you are able to use the right words instead of your own words, you feel like you're more than two thousand years old.”
“We humans have the ability to do anything when we believe. We also have the ability to believe in opposite.”
“When there is little room for anything else in your life, you learn to live on the edge.”
“One day I will stand where emperors once stood”
“In moments of outrage, when we feebly seek vengeance, we can do one of two things with our newly kindled flames. We can burn those who inspired them, or we can burn away our weakness.”
“I have a horrible, chronic, and somewhat psychosomatic disease; every blank page harasses me, taunts me at every turn. Filled with no mercy or shame, they haunt.”
“As we develop aim, the targets invariably get farther away; because if they didn't, you would only know how to take one perfect shot. So keep a steady hand and loaded mag, because one day, you will be an expert marksman.”
“When your dreams become reality, then you know you've changed the world”
“You can be the one to hide in the shadows because you are afraid! But you have no need to be ashamed.”
“I never thought I would see you fly & touch the sky! You were just a little egg but now your all big & bad!”
“10.	“You are never left out from having the experience of love. You can always give and receive love right from where you are at. It is always up to you.””
“The day one must stop dreaming on this world. 'Is the day one's breathing will stop on it”
“To break your own record on this world. You must cross the line set by your own fears on it"”
“Where fear is present, excuses are present and Where fear is absent, excuses are absent.”
“To conquer Gods plan for your life. You must not ask to follow your heart, you must follow it”
“Taking a strong decision and standing by it. Breaks the limits set by your own fears.”
“To conquer a certain level of your beliefs on this world. You must conquer a certain level of your fears on it.”
“Situations pass our lives and our lives pass the situations, take the experience and Go on with life.”
“Plan for the future, but always remember to live in the moment; this is it, your time is now-”
“Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma - which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don't let the noise of other's opinions drown out your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary.”
“Work for a cause, not applause. Live life to express, not to impress. Don't strive to make your presence noticed just make your absence felt.”
“Fall in love or fall in hate. Get inspired or be depressed. Ace a test or flunk a class. Make babies or make art. Speak the truth or lie and cheat. Dance on tables or sit in the corner. Life is divine chaos. Embrace it. Forgive yourself. Breathe. And enjoy the ride...”
“Fall in love or fall in hate. Get inspired or be depressed. Ace a test or flunk a class. Make babies or make art. Speak the truth or lie and cheat. Dance on tables or sit in the corner. Life is divine chaos. Embrace it. Forgive yourself. Breathe. And enjoy the ride...”
“Success isn't given. It's earned. On the track, on the field, in the gym. With blood, sweat, and the occasional tear.”
“Go ahead. Tell me that I'm not good enough. Tell me I can't do it, because I will show you over and over again that I can”
“In Hollywood, I'm obese. I'm considered a fat actress. I'm never going to starve myself for a part. I keep waiting for that one role to come along that scares me enough into dieting, and it just can't happen. I'm invincible. I don't want little girls to be like, 'Oh, I want to look like Katniss so I'm going to skip dinner.' That's something I was really conscious of during training. I was trying to get my body to look fit and strong, not thin and underfed.”
“I give all the glory to God. The glory goes up to him and the blessings fall down on me.”
“I never leave my house. Then I don't have to put a bra on, and I don't have to change my pants.”
“You are perfect exactly as you are. With all your flaws and problems, there's no need to change anything. All you need to change is the thought that you have to change.”
“Without minds that opt for Gods depth, were left as mere decorations to a world originally designed for purpose”
“Pay close attention to everything around you, then you'll see they're all here to set examples to light-up your soul.”
“Don't let other people negative perceptions of you destroy your self-estem. Remember, wharever happened in your life was writting. They had to happen. You could not and can not escape your destiny. God had already know how you would overcome them. Everyone got faults and have crossed over their sins. Let not those who hide behide their own dirty blanket bring you down”
“Make sure your beliefs match who you are: love.”
“It doesn't matter how people feel/ think or how much time their spend wondering about your life. What matters, is that you know you are living your life like Its golden. Good or bad, it's yours to live”
“Not everyone gonna like you: there will be times you will find some people WHO won't like what you do/ say/ wear. And WHO will hold on to your past and mistakes just to stop you from bringhting. Remember, with all the critics- hold on to your creator/ your maker(the lord). You are what god tells you- you are and nothing and no one else should matter”
“If the world is not to your liking, then change it.”
“The greatest beauty always comes abrubtly.”
“Do not waste precious time fearing the indefinite day of death; embrace this very moment and rejoice each beautiful gift of breath.”
“Anything can happen in this world. It is a crazy place, but as long as we have each other we can overcome anything life throws at us. Just have to believe in ourselves and keep moving forward.”
“A quote is a phrase, not just a bunch of words mixed all together to create a sentence. It is only when the phrase makes a special or an emotional connection does it actually therefore become a quote.”
“Surround yourself with the dreamers and the doers, the believers and the thinkers, but most of all, surround yourself with those who see the greatness within you, even when you don't see it yourself.”
“When you lay on your back under a cloudless sky, or a blanket of stars, close your eyes, the first thing you will see is your hearts truest desire, Go there!”
“Your relationship with others is your relationship with yourself: mirrored back to you.”
“Self-realization is the most important realization for every human being. To know who you really are is the main purpose of the human birth. Knowing who you are is the end of knowledge. Realizing that you are limitless and eternal will allow the peace and love that is natural in you to radiate without obstruction. The body, mind and ego die upon the arrival of death. Awareness never dies.”
“An invisible dream will become visible if acted upon.”
“I’m not in competition with anyone, I'm too busy competing with myself.”
“Instead of barricading against change, lean in and allow it”
“Love is a gift,not a currency. Share freely.”
“Don’t judge yourself by your past, you don’t live there anymore. Just because you’re not where you want to be today, doesn’t mean you won’t be there someday. You can turn it all around in the blink of an eye, by making a simple choice to stand back up – to try again, to love again, to live again, and to dream again. No one can ride you, unless your back is bent. Be a critic, but only criticize yourself in areas that you know you need to grow.”
“Dirt is what makes us grow. (Dirt: those bad things in our lives that we don't like to share with others).”
“Each day I make time to connect to my inner being. Doing so, makes navigating through life so much easier”
“GOD IS THE JUSTIFIABLE FORCE BEHIND OUR LIVES. THE ADVISES THAT WE SO PREDOMINANTLY WANT TO RECEIVE FROM MAN WILL ALWAYS STAND IN THE WAY OF OUR DESTINED VICTORY.”
“On the sides of everything lies belief, never settle for half side it will destroy you.”
“You will never know the true strength of steel unless you break it first.”
“You can choose to let the weight of the world break your back or build it stronger”
“There is too much hatred in the world for me to love nonetheless”
“Allow your mind to wonder. You'll wonder where you are.”
“Brains can easily be bought, but to get the best out of individuals, you have to win both Hearts and Minds.”
“Our world will come to an end if we cannot find a way to stop the hate and start learning to love one another as Brothers and Sisters of One Planet and of One God!”
“Great leaders are born by their actions of facing their fears.”
“Leaders always persist when it sames tough and followers always give up when it sames tough.”
“Extraordinary people face their challenges and ordinary people run away from them~”
“Leaders are always persisting when followers are always quiting.”
“Nothing can keep you down, when you believe in yourself.”
“To enjoy life, you must learn how to appreciate it first.”
“If you are sad, you are living in the past. If you are anxious, you are living the future. If you are at peace, you are living in the present.”
“Our time on earth is short, but we are ignorant enough to fret over little decisions. Take time to enjoy what time you have left, because it is much too precious to waste.”
“The clock is running. Make the most of today. Time waits for no man. Yesterday is history. Tomorrow is a mystery. Today is a gift. That's why it is called the present.”
“I will never ever be ashamed for trying something and have it not work out .. but I would forever be ashamed if I did not even have the courage to try.”
“Love is a gift, a gift received by all.”
“I can think of ten thousand better things to do with my imagination than worry.
Really.”
“Believing in the ego is like believing that you are the one in the mirror instead of the one looking into the mirror.”
“Stars look like people to me... They are surrounded by darkness... But they all gather together and brighten up the sky. That's just like us, if we are together, nothing can put out our light.”
“Creativity starts with a simple masterpiece”
“Within clenched hand dost thou conduct thee talent to malice,scourge,dearth and demise.”
“God is a very simple,without humility you can't discover Him or His works!- Mordecai Uka Dike”
“Straying from the path of good does not mean you can never step back on it.”
“When you are at fault, you become the best advocate to defend yourself...and when others are at fault, you become the best judge to pass a judgement about themselves. Not cool at all!”
“Even a 24 carat gold is of no worth until it is doped. So what if you have been tampered a little...believe me, you are still the only panacea.”
“Switch on your smile, laugh without reason. You control happiness, you change the world.”
“Life is a game, you live so you play. Follow your dreams and win what your happy heart desires.”
“Life is a game, you live so you play. Follow your dreams and win what your happy heart desires.”
“Marvel at the small wonders around you every day.”
“To exceed your limits, you first have to discover them.”
“Men are called to be right,
Some to be resourceful,
Others to be reasonable,
But few choose to be righteous.”
“The journey is long and hard. Lost is he, who seeks destines path! Only to find, himself in the way.”
“You can only persecute the “TRUTH”, but you can’t prove it wrong!-Mordecai Uka Dike”
“If you are patiently waiting when the heaven is demanding that you should act, you will spend the rest of your life waiting! be sensitive! - Mordecai Uka Dike”
“Time have answers to your questions! Just wait patiently! - Mordecai Uka Dike”
“The world is not going to change positively based on our scriptural knowledge,but by holy and righteous lifestyle!- Mordecai Uka Dike”
“Every no takes you one step closer to a yes!”
“NEVER EVER become jealous of your peers Achievements, Career, Success, Lifestyle,Joy, Assets, Peace or how God is elevating/using them...WHY? Because you don't know how many late nights they did in regard to revision, assignments, prayer etc... Also that same person may open up doors for you in the future.”
“You are loved, loving and loveable.”
“Don't let your fear, eat away at your dreams! God has not given you a spirit of fear! but a sound mind and of power! give faith to your dreams!”
“Love teaches life the joy of breathing.”
“When you allow God to work on the inside, then there will be a transformation on the outside.”
“Lose the people that will destroy you, gain the people that will form you.”
“Create a future past, which will do one of two things, hold you still or push you forward, create carefully, apply yourself and be your own”
“Imagine saying yes... I am enough right now.”
“Liberate yourself from
full of loath and
Catastrophe.
Forbid the devils trick
The audacity to see you
Trip and fall unexpected”
“Immense faith, is like a
Bright, spotless path, potent
And brave to defeat the
Enemies red-tape.”
“The God
In you is bigger
Than the devil that's been troubling you”
“I try to find the easiest
way not to cry,
but tears falls
even when i am laughing
and you cant tell
that i am hurt
because i am
smiling.”
“Be the light that brightens up a dark room, the fight that helps the weak bloom and the right that overcomes wrongs doom.”
“Stop being a baby and start taking baby steps.”
“We listen to music wherever we go. But sometimes we should look up into the sky on a starry night and watch as the stars play notes' on their keyboard. And enjoy the silence.”
“Move from selling to serving and you, your business and your whole world will shift.”
“Real Men don't take Alcohol to forget a woman, Lifting IRON does it all for them!!”
“Love yourself and everything else will fall into place.”
“pain is just an inspiration of sacrifice”
“I can only walk this path that has been given to me alone. I carry all that I can bear, and keep walking.”
“Don't ask for time to Procrastinate, ask for time to Fascinate”
“FAITH ALLOWS YOU TO SEE WELL INTO THE FUTURE,
WHEREAS FEAR, ONLY GIVES YOU A VIEW OF THE PAST.”
“Things may be expensive, but your prayer to Jesus is priceless.”
“Those that rise alone shall soon fall alone,but at the doorsteps of the downtrodden.”
“No need to be afraid of the change in direction in life you are taking...as long as its towards a positive direction.”
“"Why do people make such a big deal about the end of the world???"
-SS038Nick
"Because people like to spend their time wondering when they will die instead of living."
-Andrew. W”
“No need to feel that you need all the answers, just believe that someone has all the answers and that someone is our Lord Jesus Christ.”
“THERE ARE ONLY TWO FORCES IN THE WORLD; FAITH AND FEAR.
IF YOU LIVE WITH FAITH, FEAR WILL DISAPPEAR!”
“You can't change yesterday but you can definitely change today so that you can be where you wanna be tomorrow”
“I walk to breathe, breathe to love, love to meet you, you keep me walking.”
“Today was blessed by the efforts of those yesterday, and tomorrow's dreams and opportunities depend on the work you're willing to put-in today.”
“In general, people accumulate knowledge gradually over a long period of time. However, there are extraordinary people all around us, who are capable of accumulating impressive amounts of knowledge within a relatively short period of time. Nevertheless, even the greatest genius possesses only a small fraction of all knowledge known by mankind. Finally, the following question arises: how large is all the existing knowledge in comparison to the space of ignorance?”
“People that know you well, do not know you well enough. It is their disbelieve that keeps them from knowing you well.”
“When one thinks he has it all figured out, he will realize he truly doesn't .”
“Wealth with strength but without wisdom will lead to destruction.”
“Everything reproduces itself, If you give love, love returns, violence returns violence…”
“Pay attention to your thoughts because they will become your act and act will become your destiny …”
“Nothing is created without a reason, be open…”
“Degrees and titles cannot replace eyes and heart…”
“Always rejoice in your lack,for your current lack may be a preparation ground for massive prosperity.”
“No one can hurt you more than your own negative thoughts.”
“Living in simplicity is the food to soul...”
“Good comes from heart and evil comes from ego and mind so pen your heart…”
“Every want is a cage so get rid of wants and free yourself.”
“Every wish creates want and every want creates suffering.”
“Be aware and awake and see the divine play…”
“love,life,happiness,inspiration,personaldevelopment,Satya Kalra, Path To Anandam”
“Fear is a dream and vision-killer! Having a vision and the ability to dream is a fear-killer!”
“Those who follow Dharma, Dharma follows them…”
“When you want to be everywhere then you are nowhere…”
“Be a master of your life, not the dragger of your life.”
“Doing good deeds will bring good results tomorrow.”
“Good deeds are the seeds for the garden of goodness.”
“Cause is in action so accept it…”
“Before going to bed, count your blessings and be thankful to Almighty.”
“We seek that which we feel we need to fill a void in our life.”
“Here on the pulse of this new day,/ You may have the grace to look up and out/ And into your sister's eyes, into/ Your brother's face, your country/ And say simply,/ Very simply,/ With hope,/ Good Morning.”
“The main thing in one's own private world is to try to laugh as much as you cry.”
“Dont settle with being content in life better yourself strive for new goals in life, thats what makes you unique is because you have options so be greatness,”
“It was so hard not to believe in myself, when so many people believed in me”
“I won't be swimming in my sorrows with the sharks,with God I'll save those who are already in the deep oceans.”
“We came on this world to live and to change whatever is in our control, not to grieve over what we cant change or control on it.”
“Change lives within people, right on their decisions.”
“It's the simple and basic things in life that get missed chasing the big things in life”
“To make it, we must do our best. Nothing comes easy in life.”
“People never get anywhere on this world, until they know where exactly they want to be in life.”
“It doesn't matter which direction your mind choose to take in life. What matters most? Is moving away from your most fears on this world, for good.”
“Don't look for the road to success, create it.”
“Failure is nothing but an opportunity to learn to build a win from a loss.”
“Life worth more than to be breathed and not less than to be lived.”
“Fulfillment can rotate the world. if you desire to reach it, do more of what make you happy, around the globe.”
“Before we can create change, we have to decide something needs to change. Before we can decide something needs to change, we have to accept it as it is. Before we can accept it as it is, we have to be aware of its existence. Awareness is the beginning of all creation.”
“Time defines everything”
“A wise man actively listens rather than speak.”
“If you can be happy with nothing, you can be happy with everything.”
““Everyone praises the Sunset, but few realizes the worth of the Sunrise.” – Shahwan SETHI”
“Being afraid to make mistakes is a mistake.”
“Charity work brings back the love of life to those you are helping, but it is the love it brings to yourself that is the most rewarding.”
“Charity work brings back the love of life to those you are helping, but it is the love it brings to yourself that is the most rewarding.”
“Teach me not dance... but how to dance!!! ... Teach me not work... but why to work!!!”
“the concept of 'intelligence' in my light is rather relative, than absolutely universal.”
“i am an idea that exists in space and time.”
“Many people fail at life because they place their hard coming's upon their shoulders.
But, successful people place their hard coming's underneath their feet and rise to the top.
Pioneer T.D. Williams”
“EXPECTATION IS THE ROOT CAUSE OF UNHAPPINESS, HENCE DON'T EXPECT JUST ACCEPT !”
“Holding on tightly to bad circumstances does not make you stronger, letting go will strengthen you.”
“At the end of the day, we are all the children of God, we are brought together on this earth. Let us learn not to live in vein, but to love one another in harmony and peace.”
“"Let books take you somewhere that you've never been before"
Shantae Birton”
“A MIRROR REFLECTS OUR OUTER SELF WHILE OUR ACTIONS REFLECT OUR INNER SELF !”
“"The strength of silence, lies in the timing".”
“Mind is the one that wants to keep thinking. Mind is also the one that wants to stop thinking. Witness this.”
“The only limits we have are those of vision. We can do anything. But it all starts here. One step at a time”
“Compare me to a beautiful crimson rose that bloom.”
“My wife is coming.
And I may not have hands to hold her hands, but I don't need hands to hold her heart.
-Nick Vujicic”
“My wife is coming.
And I may not have hands to hold her hands, but I don't need hands to hold her heart.”
“There comes a time in one's life when one is just devastated, depressed, and alone. When this darkness sinks in your life, heart, and soul , remember your accomplishments , success, and blessings. That way, a vivid smile will be put on your plain sad face, and a beautiful feeling will wash away all the pain that was founded in your heart.”
“Even through dark times that is trying to let you down let see your self self like shining sun. Keep shining,keep hoping,keep going.Time will pass.Just keep your self up with inspiring thoughts.”
“Declare your dreams in the presence of your adversaries & your dreams shall gain traction like the palm tree.”
“Don’t Freeze! Surrender to the Breeze like the Trees!”
“Train yourself to have high expectations of yourself.”
“A continuous thought becomes a dream; A continuous dream becomes a vision; A continuous vision becomes a REALITY.”
“Happiness is not about what you do, it's about how you do what you do.”
“The thoughts you think today create the life you live tomorrow”
“Life is about a game that makes you a loser,
Hope is about restarting it,
Living is about fighting it back!”
“You want to be great? Well learn to be less.”
“Never fight your inner voices; self encouragement is the key to success.”
“The heart will never allow you to do something wrong. Your inner voice is always right. So you should always listen to your inner voice in order to be content and happy with yourself and your life.”
“No one on this earth is perfect. Every scar on my body is proof of every mistake I've ever made. However, mistakes don't make you stupid, not at all. Mistakes make you, you. They make you become more perfect at being you. So by all means, keep making mistakes, but not intentionally.”
“1.Every successful create options, Every successful have options.”
“Animals mind their own business.
And death snatches them away just like that.
Who do they have to thank?
Humans.
We are the ones that kill them.
People wonder why so many deaths are because of animals.
It's simply because they want to live, for as long as possible.
And for life, well us humans know better than anyone that we'd do whatever it takes to stay alive for as long as possible. So what do we do to rectify this? Leave them alone. Simple, right?”
“You can take away anything from me.
3 things you will never take from me are my ideals, my dignity, and who I am.”
“Those who prolifically bully others are most likely tormented by others themselves.”
“The exciting parts of life is the journey getting there. Look at all you do on a limited budget to self improve. Money won't do that. Money is vapor! What will money buy you? Laziness!”
“I could finally breathe, the moment you took my breath away.”
“The way we treat the world and the people around us, is simply the projection of how we see ourselves...”
“Direct your mind to overcome adverse events that are out of your control.”
“I know, what I must do.
How, may not be evident, until when, is now!”
“You're Somebody, before You're Everybody's Somebody.”
“You are the builder of dreams, dreams of your own, a family member, friend or persons yet unknown to you. Be the foundation, cornerstone, parapet, buttress, mansard or spire of someones dream today.”
“I choose to live for the truth, a life soon to be my death.”
“We may all have scars, probably, on the same spots, but each, its own story.”
“ I will still swear that our hearts' every beat was rhythmically synchronized, a melody only we could orchestrate.”
“Whenever you wrote something down, you may immediately not have the wisdom to understand the true meaning of the message; if you're someone whose wisdom comes by age, you would one day be internally filled with the joy of understanding the meaning to what you wrote.”
“When your mind becomes your only weapon you realize that you cannot lose.”
“If you take your problems and put them in proportion to the size of the universe, you will realize that there is nothing you cannot overcome.”
“I don't make mistakes ,i guess i won't learn”
“Not accepting wherever you are in this moment causes distress and confusion, you lose your true position. Surrendering to this moment is a pathway to freedom.”
“True wealth is not measured by how much riches one has accumulated, it is measured by how much peace one experiences.”
“Life is once in a lifetime experience,we got to put in our very positive best to make it an exhilarating place to live in.”
“I am prepared to do any 'dirty', hard job today for any good money, whilst I fix my eyes on God for moments of divine connections.”
“Everybody at least deserves 'Peace of Mind'.”
“If certain plans that you make become delayed or do not manifest the way you planned them to, realize that this is the universe's way of watching your back. Those delays are happening for a reason, inevitably for the greater good of you and the world.”
“Your just another wave that's gone by.”
“My mental celibacy; my 'f*#k-less' state of mind is totally unconscious. Its kind-of like a reflex to BS.”
“The only difference between a weed and a flower is survival skill.”
“Without great teachers there would be no great accomplishments.”
“A mans true power lies within his heart, The bigger the heart the bigger the man. - KK”
“A mans true weopon is his mentality, The way he thinks is the way he acts. - KK”
“A mans true weakness is his fears, the more fears he has the weaker he is. - KK”
“A mans only true friend is him himself, He cant break his own trust because he couldnt bare the pain of hurting himself self. - KK”
“You can tell a man by three things, The way he looks at others, The way he speaks to others and the way he acts with others. - KK”
“In Life, You are given just enough rope to hang yourself. The goal is to keep slack in the rope.”
“Leave no stone unturned, yet disturb no stone.”
“Don't waste a second on someone who doesn't appreciate you, And never want someone in your life who doesn't live for you.”
“Genius lives when wonder awakens”
“Never let doubt overcome your will to succeed”
“I want to be the best dancer that I can be, for you can only be the best dancer you are today and when tomorrow’s today comes, I want to be excruciatingly more marvelous than I was yesterday.”
“A wise man need only the guidance of his own heart.”
“ Reach for what appears to be out of reach. ”
“Absorb the positive. Ring out the negative.”
“If you want to be a Ground Breaker, you have to pick up the Shovel!”
“I'm not going to chase the dream. I'm going to attract the dream and let it chase me!”
“Life is too Short to wait for the Storm to be over, Learn to dance in the Rain”
“We find there is so much reason to live. And the
reason fades away as we live”
“Small consistent effort beats grand gestures.”
“When we are tired, we are attacked by ideas we conquered long ago”
“Life's irony: No one is too young to taste failure & no one is too old to attain success.”
“Caesar or nothing.”
“He who can dream the biggest,the tallest & the bravest dreams should be given the highest seat in the kingdom of success.”
“Give a poor mind $1m he will still end in poverty because,the poor mind was never prepared for the sudden riches.”
“If dreams are encouraged to flourish,life will then become a place of great interest.”
“I cant text you roses, or fax you my heart. I'd email you kisses, but we'd still be apart. I love you to pieces, and just wish you'd see, that I care for you so much 'cause you mean the world to me.”
“A real question is that which is raised on you and which forces you to find an answer within you.”
“I still remember the days when you were here with me. The days I looked at you and you were already looking at me. The days I would wake up and find a good morning text from you. The days you would secretly sneak up behind me, put your arms around me and told me you loved me. I still miss those days but I miss you even more.”
“Eventually we'll forget the past, the reason we cried and who caused us pain. We will finally move on and the memories will slowly start to fade. It's time to move on and forget about those who forgot about us. We will realize that if they still wanted to be with us, they'd still be here but deep down we know the truth. They won't come back, they've moved on with their life. We can't spend the rest of our life dwelling on the past and what could've been. It's time to move on.”
“I still remember the time you were almost mine. The time I almost told I loved you, but I just couldn't. You were standing there waiting for me to say it but it just wouldn't come out. Maybe I was too afraid to admit my feelings to you, fearing you would reject me but I hope someday you'll realize how much you meant to me.”
“Sometimes the smallest things you do for someone can mean so much to them.”
“In the end, I'll regret all the chances I didn't take with you. I'll regret all the moments I let slip by. I'll regret all the times I hid my feelings from you. And in end, my biggest regret was losing you.”
“Those that fail to believe shall live lives that is opposite of success.”
“To tell you the truth I really don't know why I just randomly smile when you're around. You're just standing there and I just cant stop smiling. Seeing you just once a day makes my day. I guess I'm just in love with you.”
“I always remember those little moments I had with you. They might not have meant anything to you but to me, memories like those are meant to forever last in my heart.”
“I'm sorry for loving you, I'm sorry that I cared, I'm sorry for holding onto you but our love was rare. I'm sorry for thinking you felt the same, I'm sorry for trying to make you stay but I really wanted you there. Most of all I'm sorry that I gave my hopes up, sorry that I thought you felt the same.”
“I once knew a girl that meant the world to me, she was just amazing. She's that one girl in my life I would never get over maybe because she gave me some of the best memories in my life. But love never lasts and now I would I give anything to go back to to the moment when I looked at her, she was looking at me and then she smiled. Everyday I wonder what could of been and what if I was with her now. I wonder how she is everyday. Years have gone by but on my mind she stayed.”
“Hold my hand, and I'll hold yours. Look in my eyes and I promise you I wont leave your sight. Fight for me and I'll always be standing by your side. Hug me tightly and I wont let you go. Tell me you love me and I promise you wont regret.”
“Counting down the days until I get to see you again.”
“I've showed you how I feel about you. All my feelings were true. All those promises I made, I;m keeping them. Now it's up to you. No matter what you decide to do, I'll always be here for you.”
“Ones upon a time I gave you my heart.Now it's in pieces and you're no longer around.I know you don't deserve me anymore but I just can't let you go...All those moments we shared will always stay in my heart. Now I'm sitting here all alone staring at the pictures we once took wishing you were here with me.But I know you won't come back and that's what hurts the most.”
“I honestly can't take this anymore. I just cant stand it seeing you with him any longer. I tried to be strong, I tried to let you go but I guess I'm just fooling myself because baby im still in love with you.”
“I'm sorry I wasn't the type of guy you were looking for but if you give me the chance to prove myself, I promise you that you wouldn't regret it.”
“A day will come where you won't be alone anymore. When you will finally find that one person you've been looking for all this time. That one person that means more to you that opens their heart and soul to you and is meant to last from this day forward. The one that will make you happy and loves you with everything they have. Stay strong and don't give up. I promise you that day will come.”
“In order not to waste the inspiration of the spirit of God, please activate your mind and put it into use”
“No matter how long its been, every time I stare at the pictures we took, it still feels like yesterday.”
“Someday I'll find my way back to you.”
“You did something to me, I don't know what it was but I do know that I don't want to lose you. You always keep a smile upon my face and I can act like myself because you accept me. You mean so much to me, the way you make me feel is just unexplainable. This is the happiest I've been in a awhile and I have to thank you for that. You just make it so easy to fall for you and believe me, I'm falling harder with each passing day.”
“After you have converted inspiration into ideas, the second stage of converting invisible energy into physical products is what is called the stage of understanding”
“Sometimes you just have to fight the tears, keep smiling and say everything will be okay.”
“Your Success is just one decision away.”
“When you look back and reflect, remember, you are the sum of all of your life's decisions.”
“God will answer your needs when you go on your knees.”
“Sometimes making a decision in life is about taking a big leap and just doing it. Stop fussing with your heart and mind.”
“Your life was given to you. Your gifts were born in you. Your journey is your beginning to the end. Your faith is your foundation. In the beginning God created you. There is only one you. Own your human being-Be You Be Now™”
“I'm sorry. I know we fight, but who doesn't? We aren't perfect. We're gonna fight sometimes. But I'm never going to stop loving you, no matter how much we fight or what we fight about. I just want to let you know that I love you and the reason I'M apologizing, whether I started it or not, is because I love you more than I love my pride. I would rather lose a stupid argument than lose you.”
“Unhappiness is directly proportional to our denial of reality”
“I never go to be satisfied until I touch a soul or help a fellow human being daily.”
“As the limits are pushed, so will the definitions be redefined.”
“A man does not need to do anything to impress anyone. Anyone will be impressed by him being himself”
“You excel as a student,when your notes becomes the future text book.”
“Never pretend to be genius,Prove it.”
“There’s this very special day, it’s called today. Your life is on display; what more need I say.”
“Ethics is the difference between passion and paycheck.”
“Ethics and financial compensation rarely share the same bed.”
“Rome wasn't built in a day...but it only takes one day for a crazy bitch to burn it down.”
“Take the Lead Lord, Lead me Lord.”
“A wise man knows to say he does not know but a fool claims to know until it is apparent by all that he does not.”
“Unless you are God don't ever ask me to change. I am who I am.”
“Goals are not made to be accomplish, they are made to be overcome.”
“The most important moment in your life, is now!”
“"Believe In Repeat Business" Is The Best Quality Of Great Businessman.And Client Satisfaction Is The Only Way to Get Repeat Business”
“Don't always follow the best, become one”
“Acknowledgement is a kind of nourishment to consciousness.”
“Apathy occurs when you aren't interested enough in your own life to be the chief influence in it.”
“Our sense of identity either drives us forward, or holds us back.”
“Defeat breeds change; change breeds victory.”
“Nature is like a wonderful carnival in the forest”
“Today's society limits us to only see the outside appearance. But it takes more then your eyes to see deep inside of a person.”
“You can't progress in life, without getting knocked on your ass a couple of times.”
“We are not living in a tech starved world, so how do we build the next biggest thing? One idea at a time, starting with our minds...”
“Im trending therefore I am.”
“It's super easy to run away from the problems so you don't have to deal with it but then you'll always be stuck in the mud that reflects the dirt in your heart. How about having courage to face the problems and fix them and gain true honor and respect?! Too many cowards in this world that have followers and multiply more cowards into this world instead of true courageous leaders!!”
“If you aren't stepping forward, then you are stepping backwards.”
“When we go to the market for ice cream, we get into a car. We are not the car. The car is simply a vehicle for travel. When we spiritually awake, we realize we are an immortal spiritual being temporarily in human form. The human body is our vehicle to travel about. Although we are in a human body, we are not the human body any more than we are the car.”
“A Great Legacy doesn't end, it only begins”
“Rebooting my life... Please wait...”
“No matter what do you have, it matters only what you can achieve out of it.”
“The best thing in your life is not going to come in your way easily you have to put all your efforts to earn it.”
“Share your happiness with the world and hold your pain within you its a gift in its purest form use it to grow.”
“Pain makes you aware of your consciousness, use it to become a better person.”
“Sports are just like life ,if you make a mistake pick your head up, keep moving ,and try it again”
“While you are developing your consciousness, it is important NOT to think when you shouldn't and to be silent when you should. At that time your intuition will provide all the answers you were looking for.”
“Hope is what keeps us & our spirit alive; No matter how difficult, it still shows the path to achieve anything!”
“Life's too short, have something in head? Go out and say it loud!”
“In a sea of discovery never forget home”
“How can you call that man ugly when he showers you with praise and compliments? You! Who plasters her face with paint!”
“You can't win the war before you, if you can't win the hearts around you.”
“Even a farmer knows that he has to have faith to see the harvest, when all he has is an empty field and a couple of seeds...”
“LIfe can be SIMPLE it is a choice and It is Yours.”
“Everytime you lie, You are actually snatching your freedom from yourself.”
“Everytime you lie, You are actually snatching your freedom from yourself.”
“The only time when you lose is the time when you decide.Never decide to loose and reach your destination”
“Time never changes things..It only give us the space to change it.”
“A friend is a person who always understands your preoccupations, even when other people do not perceive them at all.”
“"A Real Woman's accessory is class, and a fabulous shoe”
“The only way to beat a little experience is with a whole lot of experience!!!”
“I think someday, I'll write a book about life...just as soon as I'm done with my research.”
“Her confidence is classy and sexy like the fabulous stillettos on her feet”
“Everyone Under the right pressure becomes a diamond
Hint: everyone is made of carbon”
“Being human is not a crime, but denying it is.”
“It only takes a little bit of hope to change the world.”
“You usually judge people according to your standards. Your worst expectations of someone are usually what you would expect out of yourself.”
“Leaders are those who can inspire themselves. Followers are those who are inspired by leaders.”
“And now is the era of enlightenment,age where the secret principles to transcendence known only by a few are revealed to the public.Yes, this is the greatest time in the history of mankind.”
“Who understand how powerful is a 'method of repeat', will understand how powerful is mind.”
“Strive not to be a success, but rather to be of value.”
“"You never know what you can ask life for unless you try" Raphael Ksobiech”
“In every aspect of life there are always going to be those who doubt you, but the best feeling in the world is when you can prove them wrong.”
“I used to talk about people then I went on to high school.”
“Failure fears the consistent soul.”
“Even if someone hurt you in the past nothing justifies you knowingly trying to hurt them in the present or future.”
“If you don't chance your arm, you'll never break your neck.”
“The Power of Perspective;
Imagine how different our world would be if all of humanity understood the fact that we are spiritual beings tethered but for a little while in mortal bodies.”
“Mastering of the emotions look like a fantastic dream yet is that not a simple gratitude? The wish to improve something looks fine at first glimpse but is that not an attempt to replace the gratitude for the sunlight with the individual understanding of what‘s what?”
“When the World seems at its darkest, you have the best opportunity to shine the brightest.”
“STOP Asking For Permission, TO LIVE YOUR LIFE...”
“Men who cry are better men than those who do not cry.”
“TO CHANGE THE MINDSET WE HAVE TO CHANGE THE SETTINGS OF THE MIND !”
“The Lord made my dealings secure.”
“Treat those that have nothing with your respect,and dignity, and it will increase their faith to believe in most things.”
“Look around you, before you end up around that which you are looking around.”
“If your friend left you during your bad time, let him go. He never was your friend.”
“Possibility is the enthusiastic imagination of idealism, impossibility is an awkward representation of realism”
“Passion drives change, persistence defeats impediments”
“"As husband and wife; We are ONE in the present, and looking to the future.”
“Why worry about the Cost Of Living while we should actually be worrying about the Cost Of Not Living A Life To Our Highest Potential.”
“No matter how hard you try, there will be good and bad times in life, its up to you to use your strength to conquer your weakness.”
“Life!If your not happy with what your watching..
you can always change the channel!!”
“The meaning of life is simple: Live. Those who waste their lives trying to find the meaning of life, has never lived a day in their life; because we are the life, and we're the ones living it. So basically, to find out the meaning of life, is to find out the meaning of you.”
“A heart don't have a mind, and a mind don't have a heart; so I think it's infallible too listen to either because they both can fail you. I say, listen to yourself.”
“The world is beautiful. It's the things in it that are ugly.”
“Failure is only a door to success.”
“Failure is only a door to success.”
“Concentrate on what you do well, and do it better than anybody else.”
“Eg vil ikkje eiga noko som jeg ikkje kan låne bort!”
“Eg vil ikkje eiga noko jeg ikkje kan låna bort!”
“Eg vil ikkje eiga noko eg ikkje kan låna bort!”
“Life is unpredictable I believe that , Life will give you everything which you deserve I Believe but life also gave you experiences while doing struggle so why don’t you believe it was just starters which you ate and the full platter is still you have to eat.”
“Some lessons can be read, some can be taught but life cannot be teach by anyone it can experience and everyone’s experiences are different. As glasses are purchased to pour liquid but some use you it for water, some for soft drinks and some for liquor. This is the use of life some people waste there life some use there every second.”
“You are never alone or will ever be; Self needs no
sun unlike shadow!”
“Be happy with all that you are, for it's not your duty to be accepted by everyone.”
“When the problems of yesterday are with you today then you haven't moved forward.”
“A believers beliefs are only disbelief, in others beliefs. To truly believe, you must first truly disbelieve; believing your belief is true, and others beliefs are unbelievable.”
“"Because of today there's no tomorrow." - Elgecca Gem Catimbang.”
“We should not count the wonders, but recognize them in every our step to ride a dream.”
“All men are born with wings, but only few learn to fly!”
“Misconstrued perception,
distortion of situation,
influenced by emotion, stress and experience,
don't you know an occurrence is what you make of it,
not to be dictated by the natural reflexive cynicism of the human mind.”
“We have aspirations that guide us, but only we choose the path to decide us.”
“The claim I know everything is the boasting that kills as being in an awe as the gratitude for being - that is much worse than just do not know.”
“And thus did We reveal to you an inspired book by Our command. You did not know what the Book was, nor (what) the faith (was), but We made it a light, guiding thereby whom We please of Our servants; and most surely you show the way to the right path: / The path of Allah, Whose is whatsoever is in the heavens and whatsoever is in the earth; now surely to Allah do all affairs eventually come.”
“I will pray for you, and you will live.”
“Let all that you do be done in truth.”
“Dreams are near impossible goals set by your imagination to make you move forward in life”
“Lamenting what is lost is futile, not lamenting what is to lose is loss. Eternity!”
“Do not resurrect the past, create the future”
“Art is what passion looks like.”
““To love with all your heart....To forgive with relentless compassion....To be purposefully used up by the great dream that calls you forth....is what there is to do. Anything less would be a travesty to the soul””
“Homines sunt voluntates”
“My Best Practice in career " I Never work but just live in it" John Rex”
“The ascending of a tree in height is directly proportional to the descending of its roots. Likewise, the ascending of your spirituality is directly proportional to your descending on your knees.”
“They betray you in the night but little do they know your Resurrection
comes in the morning.”
“The current means of communication mark the artless hug as the desire- as what we not have at a moment. So today‘s signature expresses the absence of love.”
“Our actions fire up the beacons of the quotes”
“I think only small persons can see something like a small thing. Even the ants are growing while viewing until become like the elephants that urge us to uplift the eyes and thus humble all our earlier judgements.”
“You don't need branded smile, to show who you are.”
“Fear not to create art based on a level of assumption envisioned from the mere substance of pure observation.”
“Reading gives you leading edge.”
“Destiny never gives us success or failure, it just reflects our efforts.”
“If you have the ability to give somebody a smile, you are capable of changing the world.”
“"human knowledge is understanding of human perception." r.s..”
“Your friends define your personality not customize your thoughts and beliefs.”
“Selling off my past to invest in a new future.”
“Patience is for people who sit and wait for things to happen. Success is for people who make things happen.”
“New era of interstellar civilization is coming to the earth.
The sudden change of the world will happen sooner or later.
It is better presume that this major event will come like a thief in the night. Otherwise, there will be regret which always came late.”
“If you postpone right things in the beginning, you will have to do wrong things at the end"”
“a person is quite literally not able to think of anything that is not possible outside their body, for everything that they are comprised of came from outside their body. in short-- if it is not possible outside of a person, it cannot be possible within one --”
“People always say listen to your heart, these people can not hear the voice of your mind... sometimes head over heart is the right choice, but the hardest.”
“Când toate zilele sunt egale înseamnă că oamenii au încetat să vadă lucrurile bune care au apărut în viaţa lor de câte ori soarele traversează bolta.”
“Preferential treatment is the quiet side of prejudice.”
“If you feel eager to prove something to the world, then you need world's attention to be able to accomplish it.”
“Live to learn, & you will have learned what you've lived.”
“Men are anxious to improve their circumstances, but are unwilling to improve themselves; they therefore remain bound”
“Dreams are only Dreams if we don't take the action to unfold them!”
“Sabne kaha, "sabke saath meethiwali mein raho."
Humne kaha, "yeh hamare bas ki baat nahin."”
“If you lose your dignity, you've lost your lifetime friend.”
“A person's physical being could be destroyed partially or completely but the just and humane cause he/she fought for couldn't be.”
“A person's physical being could be destroyed partially or completely but the just and humane cause he/she fought for couldn't be.
Malala Yousafzai, is an angel fighting for a cause who seems to be one amongst the "birds flying ahead of others"”
“Sometimes friends may expect just like parents...but why change routes?”
“For a better tomorrow we must work today”
“Inspiration is a teacher of your mind”
“thanks universe for all I have,success,special persons,what I have seen ,felt and loved,learning nothing is a mistake and goodness melt any badness”
“If you aren't Certain in heaven be certain in life and make it better than heaven could ever be”
“Life is a book and has chapters. You are the plot line.”
“What you see is what you get! Just a guy that loves adventure!”
“sometimes its hard to distinguish the weeds from the daisys but it wont be long before you find your rose”
“If you feel like your life is on a treadmill and you can't find time for what matters, get a new treadmill. The new models let us slow down, speed up, go uphill and down. We also can switch at will to an elliptical strider, a stepper, a bicycle (with up to 30 gears!), a rowing machine, nature trail or uncleared path--with many more paths ready to be created from it, the delight of occasional rain, a fresh breeze and the stars to guide us toward all new destinations.”
“You're my diamond in the rough.”
“Choose a better life not a bitter life!”
“is not difficult thinking about something , but realize that is logical to start thinking about it.”
“If we as Christians are foolish for falling then we are wiser when we get up”
“We are all secretly searching for the one that somehow crosses the mote, climbs the walls and after the unrelenting skirmish that is love; finally gets that draw-bridge to lower as we surrender ourselves to them.”
“In the physical reality of matter, there is no such thing as spirit nor ghost. But there are things of matter which differ in terms of size and laws of physics which govern them.”
“Being free from negativity is finding peace with self and lacking judgement of others.”
“We are all secretly searching for the one that somehow crosses the mote, climbs the walls and after the unrelenting skirmish that is love; finally gets that draw-bridge to lower as we surrender ourselves to them.”
“We must be inspired to expect more from ourselves than what we believe to be possible!”
“We must be inspired to expect more from ourselves than what we believe to be possible!”
“What we are today
is because of
what we have done yesterday
And what we will be tomorrow
is because of
all what we are doing today.
Your past has made your present
and your
present is making your future.”
“The mind is a dangerous thing Not Using it is even more dangerous”
“You can't change the world in one day, but in one day you can change someone's world.”
“You can't change the world in one day, but in one day you can change someone's world.”
“True innovation is written in pencil”
“Being different can be a great quality to get you where you wish you be, as long as you are what you seem to be.”
“Instincts rarely fail you, but it is your choice to continue to ignore them.”
“They said, "rock music sun ne se future kharab ho jaata hai".
I asked them, "waise bhi aap kya tod lete"?”
“No matter where you work there are positives and negatives. Management will have their downfalls, but your overall experience will depend on how you deal with it.”
“People are so quick to get angry over what they don't understand and talk down to you but can't even look in the mirror long enough to call themselves out.”
“Anger won't seek justice only love does.”
“Kids who fail to do anything in their life only search for reasons in the end or sometimes even blame their friends for everything so that they can escape from reality.”
“A wise knowledgeable understanding and discerning person is first knowledgeable wise and understanding in their own lives before discerning the live or lives of another he/she has to reevaluate realign themselves through the word of our Lord and savior Jesus Christ”
“Growing up alone may be operose, dealing with situations out of your age range takes lots of bravery, having to leave your innocence behind takes lots of courage, but looking back and admiring the great women you've become, now that, is Triumph!”
“The mind is an absolute playground, once you get off the swing and let someone else have a turn.”
“You say you hate what's fake, but it's your mind you make.”
“Just ask the question why, the answer may surprise any one looking eye.”
“In what direction does your river flow? If you look I'm sure you'll know!”
“My favorite quotes are the ones I've wrote.”
“Speak it, live it, love it, give it, get it, and return the favor.”
“Indeed it is wisdom, that will bring us to the magical kingdom.”
“Our instinct took over, undeveloped and sober. So we fought over what we believed not. Instead of talking about what we've got.”
“Tell me I'm wrong, and perhaps I'll change my song.”
“He who cries mourns, He who mourns doesn't always cry.At least not physically.”
“People believed the world was flat. I wonder who told them that.”
“My mind is one word. Free.”
“Concern everyone and everyone will concern you.”
“I claim to be no more than an average man with below average capabilities. I
have not the shadow of a doubt that any man or woman can achieve what I have if
he or she would put forth the same effort and cultivate the same hope and faith.”
“Life is like crossing the street, look both ways and you won't get hit.”
“ONE WHO TALK'S ABOUT HIS SENCE ,IS TALKING NON-SENCE.”
“Let who is seeing become the seen. The rest falls perfectly in between.”
“The aptitude of beauty is acceptance oneself.”
“If I met my idol, I would simply say hello. Not to be reduced to shaking jello.”
“Greed. Despair. Ti's a product of breathing anothers air and not remaining fair.”
“Tonight I'll read the dictionary, so tomorrow my words shall carry.”
“I've realized these quotes were somewhat bland, so I've decided to lend a helping hand.”
“I'm fueled up for flight, no landing gear in sight.”
“There comes a time in a person life when he/she realizes the struggle of growing up. Sometimes despite 2000,2012, we debut with flying colors. We now know that we are the sole person we can count on.”
“Where is that answer.. -Oh! There it is! Right next to my pen, where it always has been.”
“Some people have a strong belief in horoscope, others don't.
I don't believe all things said in horoscope, only some of them...the good parts.”
“If you're not at the table, then you're probably on the menu.”
“If inspirational quotes are only seen as useless words on paper, then jail is just an ordinary room you're staying in.”
“The perfect lover is not found.. it is created.”
“Until all people pull their own heads from the sand, I’ll continue to do my best to help pull them out, no matter how hard they resist.”
“Connections correct when both are interconnected correct.”
“Believe in your karma no matter how hard time you have today, don't surrender keep patience and brush all the dirt from your heart,Your good karma will take you to your destiny.”
“I donot sleep to rest, I sleep to dream.”
“You Look Around At Everyone's Life But Then You Think To Yourself "Man,I Only Have One".”
“two things that a believer is certain of in the morning:mercy and joy.”
“I’d rather be tentatively going in the right direction than confidently going in the wrong direction”
“Be You Be Now”
“Life is a roller coaster...just remember the going up often seems worse than going down, but it's worth it sitting at the top.”
“Truth is bitter, but when swallowed it becomes sweet in your belly! - Mordecai Uka Dike”
“Don't let life mess up your life.”
“Now that we made it to today, how was your yesterday? Do you see how life works. Do you see how you and only you control your future? So make every moment count because the one thing we cannot do is turn back the hands of time, but we can start all over until we get it right”
“Compare yourself not just to those who have more than you, not just to those who have less than you, but also those who are similar to you. Now compare the differences in your character then, and only then will you understand.”
“The light becomes the tangible when we publicly voice the heart and sign the response.”
“It is better to believe than to disbelieve, in so doing you bring everything to the
realm of possibility.”
“"You don't have to go with old ways of getting things done ..try yours and make a change".”
“The body, mind and soul is like a bio-computer. The body is the hardware. The mind is the software, operating system and various programs. The soul (awareness) is the power that keeps the computer running.”
“The moment you start believing in yourself, the moment others start believing in you.”
“If the barriers of society did not exist, a disability would not be a disability.”
“The beginning of possibilities is the end of impossibilities.”
“The biggest promise you could ever make is to always look after yourself and to keep it is the best thing you will ever do”
“The biggest promise you could ever make is to always look after yourself and to keep it is the best thing you will ever do”
“Don't be disappointed or disheartened if you gave it your all and worked hard for it, another better opportunity is on its way. Wait and have faith. However if you can say you should have worked harder, take it as a lesson and never complain about the disappointment again.”
“If you are crying over someone, rejection or failure. Take a step back and remind yourself who you are and what you want to be. When you have the answer do not let a single tear escape your eyes”
“I have met many people who I loved and trust but they didn't care about me, yes it hurt and there was pain. But I simply moved on and left because I had no reason to stay. I am not going to lie it was horrible, moving on isn't as easy as you can say it. I would think I am never going to get over this. You will, because you are strong enough to conquer anything. You are certain to one day look back at this chapter of you life with pride and with a smile on your face”
“The wisest learn from others mistakes. Learn never to hurt someone as much as someone has hurt you, learn not to give up after failure from others, learn never to put someone else down, and learn never to lose yourself”
“Always do something even if you believe with all your might that you cannot gain positive results from it. Miracles do happen and you will always have the thought in your mind what if I did go through with that decision, what would have happened.”
“Don't look at a woman as setting you back because she is actually gonna move you forward.”
“The mind is extremely fast at processing thoughts. Thoughts are gathered through the five senses and are processed internally. This is a function of the mind. Ego is the personality formed from all the information gathered through the five senses. The notions, ideas and concepts. Awareness is the underlying current that is witnessing all this.”
“Inspiration is my drug and Expression is my gateway.”
“Life isn't always like Chess. But sometimes it is. In a really difficult game, queen leaves board at the end. The difference is, you call it sacrifice in Chess.”
“Flowers were blooming, withered soon.. Rains kept falling, wasn't forever.. Dogs were barking, just for sometime.. Sun, moon & stars were invisible at times, but they kept watching you.. Let them shine for you, before it’s too late..”
“I'm not trying to be a fair and understanding Dad... I'm trying to be a Great Father. Because at times fairness and understanding are superseded by Protection and Preparation.”
“It is when we can still our own mind and control our own emotions that we master our true selves. At that point we become Attractive beyond reason - Sexy without fault and Irresistible beyond measure.”
“People may judge you for your outward appearance, but once your mouth opens and intelligence sprouts from it they begin to respect your mind and forget what you appear to be.”
“Today I made a conscious decision to not concern myself with issues that should not concern me.”
“But there is something great about an undying spirit......at some point it will remember just how strong, fearless and undying it really is.”
“Die hard for your name, your name should be enough to recognize you”
“Always play the game with ATTITUDE, incase if you loose you will win the heart of the spectators and opponents”
“Tyrants often confuse themselves as being leaders. A fool is this man.”
“want to be more "right" than the person next to you? this is me pointing you in the right direction.---> make it right to you and then make it right from as many other peoples points of view as possible that beleive that what you beleive to be right is actually wrong. you now have a more true(greater material composition) "right". GOOD LUCK!!”
“Someone who lives meaningfully for 30 years has lived a much longer Life than one who drifted through Life for 60 years.”
“When you dont have it, you miss it. When you get it, you get bored of it. human behavior has tendency to create best in everything. don't play with the hearts of people because until the same situation bits you back and you realize your mistake, it will be too late.”
“If you think that everything in this world belong to God, than automatically everything belongs to you too since you are also created and connected by God, and this makes you happy but the problems arise when you think that some things belong to you and some are not.”
“simplicity never describes the speciality of a person”
“If you need the lasting help of others then you can't think of yourself as their equal.”
“Words can be heard from a friend or found in a book but actions have to be taken only by you.”
“A chance cannot be lost, there is always a coming one, only you need to know how to grab it.”
“Show me a thoroughly satisfied man and I will show you a failure.”
“Don't ruin your life with complexity when you can apply simplicity, eventually both will lead to the same END.”
“A door keeps you await for long, worth nothing but a key to open.”
“Life is not about years counted but number of achievements.”
“Have always new beliefs if want to accomplish your future deals.”
“Goals won't be 100% achieved if you don't give it a fight, grab it before someone else claim it as his right.”
“You are in the middle of nowhere if just see it blur, future is a word, you either make it shine or keep it on the floor.”
“Life deserves more efforts than predictions, luck can be deaf sometimes.”
“I never could have done what I have done without the habits of punctuality, order, and diligence, without the determination to concentrate myself on one subject at a time.”
“The louder you speak the less will be heard, only words with significance can preach.”
“Don't rush life for a good luck, it can be anytime soon.”
“Your brain is responsible for your thoughts, but it's your responsibility to train it how to deal with things the right way.”
“not necessarily because I want to make the dishes, but for relaxation and inspiration.”
“Besides facts acceptance you need assumptions, to boost you up and create alternatives.”
“Without a base you cannot win the race.”
“"Enough" is not for us, We meant to struggle, There is always a new fight.”
“Keep your plans for your self or people will start distracting you with other plans.”
“When you focus on the things you can control, there is no limit to what you can achieve.”
“Success knows no age,sex, color or creed so don't limit yourself by categorizing your potential.”
“The older I get the less I need to be happy. I just want to live, laugh and love”
“Think of your family today and every day thereafter, don't let the busy world of today keep you from showing how much you love and appreciate your family.”
“You can't be living if you're not believing.”
“A woman who is quick to anger has not learned the art of self mastery. Before she acquires any wisdom worth sharing with the world she must master the art of her true self. The thinking woman rules and becomes that into which the people admire, the haste filled woman regrets after thought.”
“It's funny how we can put so much faith in something we truly believe will always be there and when it's gone and we are faced with the reality....It's then in those moments we are truly defined to our core.
Through the foundation of what we have built ourselves upon breaks and shifts.Some pieces wane, while others remain and leave scars.And through that we can clearly see ourselves again.”
“A plan that is not written is only an idea.”
“There is nothing beautiful about perfection; those imperfections that you hate so much about yourself are the reason that someone else loves you.”
“If at first you don't know, think again.”
“May the light of your own consciousness awaken you from an eternity of darkness.”
“Everyone wakes up in the morning to achieve something, to make something special. When you try to make it happen, don't get upset by the failure. it's not an end. it's just the beggining because God has planned best for you! keep believing and have faith.”
“Always be free or die trying”
“Dreams can be stolen if you just kept on watching”
“The sun is ALWAYS shining - no matter what, look for the sunshine in your life - it is ALWAYS there.”
“Sometimes taking that next step in ones journey is staying pat and allowing that step to come to you.”
“Be ambitious and design your success, life is subject to the decisions you make.”
“There will be lots of people who will be in your life at each and different stages randomly. But only few of them will leave their special impression on your heart forever.”
“You have a competitor, the moment you see competition”
“Love is once, rest is life. But sometime life's games and different strategies try to distract us from our destiny. matter of fact that sometime life wins and sometime love power pulls the game back if the lovers are true.”
“Strong beliefs win strong men, and then make them stronger.”
“My name is #Hashtag.”
“I would like my eggs easy over with a #hashtag on the side.”
“I desire respect more than I fear death; without respect, I’m dead already.”
“I'm grateful for what I have, for what I don't have makes me who Iam.”
“We do mistakes and learn by them. but, If you do mistakes again and again on purpose or just to show your skeptesism then it may destroy your own image infront of everyone you in relation with.”
“If I could turn back time, and do it one more time.”
“There is nothing like 'too late' exist. Just make your mind, keep aim straight an strong, work hard on it an you will find out that 'too late' became 'I made it'.”
“I came from the Good Side,, Struggled through the Bad Side and Juggled both in one Hand.... #Life”
“Young people need models, not critics”
“You can plan everything, but not everything goes as planned.”
“Be more........London!”
“We should wake up every day pretending we just survived a close brush with death and enjoy the feeling of being alive that such a feeling creates.”
“Friends, true friends, make up half of your personality... If you lose your friends you lose half "you".”
“I thought happiness is in a relationship.. Apparently fond happiness is in companionship.”
“The mind (ego) wants you to keep thinking. It will do whatever it can to keep you thinking. It will use an innumerable array of tricks to keep you lost in thought. Without thought the mind loses its identity. You are not the mind, you are pure awareness.”
“If in our lifetime, if we can accomplish one amazing thing that encourages those we know and those that we do not know, to make an effort to do amazing things, then at this time we have accomplished amazing.”
“To overcome fear of the unknown, is to overcome yourself.”
“the footsteps of an excellent man is not made by the path he walks, but by the shoe that he chooses to walk any path, in.”
“Wisdom knowledge and understanding is not just words told from the spirit and heard by flesh but indeed actions of the spirit seen by flesh”
“Let go of everything that holds you back from being a better you!”
“Stay Zen My Friend. Bend Like A Reed in the Breeze.”
“Fear is a malleable force, only you allow it to be weak or strong.”
“We have no problems, only challenges”
“Stay hungry. It's the only reason you will want to eat.”
“The world is in you.”
“The greatest deed any man can ever perform in order to assist humanity is to help oneself. Achieve your personal goals and you will be moving everyone forward. Our existence as humans is largely made of individual contributions to collective achievements. You are called to do something.”
“Sooner or later, those who win are those who think they can.”
“In our goal of obtaining a gain, we get lost chasing after things that pass away.”
“Intellect is the new attractiveness and gangsta. Men gain it and use it to lead your queen into a legacy that lasts the test of time. That's what we put here for. To
Lead.”
“Never expose a problem without providing a long-lasting solution that guarantees no possibility for recurrence of the problem.”
“If one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live
the life which he had imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in
common hours.”
“The opportunity to learn is one of the greatest inalienable rights that we have. Don't give it up stupidity. Utilize it to launch into your life's purpose. Remember you are here for a reason.”
“Time is never earned........ it is spent. We all live life spending the time that is given to us. Some are given more time than others, we do not know why but that's just how life goes. But the question is..... who is living more, the person with less time, or the person with more time. Some people can live more of a life in a year than most of us can in a lifetime. Choose to spend your time wisely...... Faith hope and love!”
“Tomorrow is never promised, so cherish each day that is given to you. Time goes by all to fast, so spend it wisely and do not waste even a second. Look to the future, and have hope that it will come. Dream something great, but achieve something greater. and each and every day....... Don't forget to Live.”
“When the sky grows dark and the world grows cold,
I will shine on, I will warm the world!
When the storm grows fierce and waves get higher,
I will stand strong, I will push forward!
When life gets hard and knocks you down,
I will not give up, I will stand again!
When the challenges seem impossible and hope seems lost,
I will keep trying, I will have faith!
When you feel alone and no one hears you,
I will be there, I will listen!”
“Don't waste your life thinking about what you could have done, when you can live your life and strive to do anything you haven't done.”
“The fastest way to finish is to start.”
“The hardest part of success is maintaining it”
“Before this very birth, your awareness was present. After this death your awareness will still be present. It is eternal.”
“What I do defines who I am; what you do defines who you are.”
“You may be able to collect, read and digest billions of reference about aliens and UFOs. Then you will find that most of them were claimed as hoax, others vice versa. Eventually, there is only one thing you want to do about it...the close encounter.”
“Attempting the absurd will get people to call you names. When you reach the goal guess who will have the last laugh?.”
“My daugther ask me the other day, daddy do you think im pretty.. I said to her sweety you not only pretty you are beautiful inside out and she gives me a hug that i will never forget love you little girl.”
“Allow yourself the Freedom to Fail before you see Success Sail!”
“I am the King of Video Games!”
“Though the the trialling times of the HSC are hard like my rock hard abs, there's no better feeling than reaching the end of perhaps the most challenging year of your life, and experiencing that level of achievement as you prepare for the most exciting and rewarding part of your young lives.”
“The rules for parents are but three... Love, Limit, and Let them be.”
“Life will blindside you. That is almost certain. How you respond is up to you.”
“Big challenges provide big opportunities.”
“Big challenges provide big opportunities.”
“Through the toughest of days. Even the smallest of smiles can make someone feel good”
“A wish is a thought we entertain in our minds once in a while,but a desire is a thought we entertain in our minds every time.”
“The mind is more of an architect than a professional architect because, a professional architect also uses the mind to perform his/her architectural venture.”
“The solution to the underdevelopment of any nation resides inside the bank of her world & not inside the world bank.”
“When you have finished for the day. Look back at what you have achieved and not what you could have achieved!! Look back and tell your self I've done the best I can and tomorrow is but another day for me to do my best and be all that I can be”
“To change who you are is not to solely add new attributes to your character, but it is to simply look at the core of yourself honestly, and whittle away the traits that have come encumber you.”
“If you're not better today than you were yesterday, you're doing something wrong”
“A Greater Person is Someone who PLAN their OWN LIFE, or Someone Else will PLAN to Make YOU ORDINARY.”
“Many people are so eager to reveal the truth to the world for the sake of the truth, including me. But I just wonder whether all of them realize and admit that there are always historical and personal motive behind all that struggle.”
“The Longest Canvas in the WORLD is in YOU ...”
“What is preaching teaching and speaking the word of God if we dont live and act the word of God”
“Be Aesthetic not pathetic”
“The ones who talk shit are the ones that always quit!”
“When Sweat, Tears, and Discipline kick in thats when the game starts to begin”
“Everyone can have a physique its only the strong ones that can make it unique”
“Fitness is more than just sweat and pain its an act of discipline that lives within you forever”
“Read and Mind it :)
You are special,yes u r special in urself. u can do what u want. dont jus sit an cry for the past an things which cant be refresh. u can create ur own destiny. u can achieve everythin u have aimed in ur life,because, You are special.”
“No one gets harmed when your with someone with big arms”
“Learn any language by treating it as music. Period.”
“To practice is ten times harder than to preach.”
“Knowledge is worth. Only, when it is of service to others...”
“Anyone can be a #star but it takes #hardwork to be a #superstar.”
“"ENTHUSIAM" is the key to #success and secret of success.”
“There is no such thing as failure, only opportunities for improvement.”
“Love is indestructible. love can make your life heaven also a hell. it can make u an angel also demon. love never comes with validity of realtionships u create, Everythin happen like whole world conspires to make it happen. dont ever fool yourself in love. If u dont give ur 100% you shall not recieve the same.”
“Everything has a beginning and an end. Life is just a cycle of starts and stops. There are ends we don’t desire, but they’re inevitable, we have to face them. It’s what being human is all about.”
“The world cannot be changed with pretty words alone.”
“Lying tears hurt others, lying smiles hurt one’s self.”
“If you can not be sure about something unbelievable, do not jump to conclude it as hoax.
If you are witnessing bizarre event right in front of you, do not jump to conclude it as real.
Why? Because some people say 'seeing is believing', while the others say 'sometimes your eyes can deceive your mind'.”
“To be educated is to question why and determine whether something is right or wrong yourself and not blindly agree to whatever the leaders concoct.
Remember, victor is justice, they make the history; It is never definite.”
“If you feel you are the same person today as you were yesterday , you have wasted a day my friend ...”
“The future looks bright, so let's take flight.”
“It doesn't matter how many say it cannot be done or how many people have tried
it before; it's important to realize that whatever you're doing, it's your first attempt
at it.”
“If you take life for granted, you will surely be granted with regret.”
“A time to reflect on what life offers, a time to create an imagination far greater than one might know, a time that brings peace to a soul...during this time we believe the impossible...during this time, we poop!”
“Believe in and actively pursue your dreams, for if you have dreamt it, haven’t you already been there once?”
“I think it was a huge inspiration. The next morning, we were all walking tall.”
“Integrity without courage is useless and courage without integrity is meaningless.”
“Leadership is inspiration and if you are not inspiring you are not a leader.”
“I was asked, how do you always seem to think outside the box.
I advised, simply imagine there is no box.”
“See the whole new world by your stable positive eyes which can see things in positive ways and can differentiate the things and see them in their own way. yes, u will feel the change.”
“To be INVICTUS you will have to prove that all the others are CONQUERABLE”
“What we decide to do in the face of adversity is perhaps the truest measure of character.”
“What we decide to do in the face of adversity is perhaps the truest measure of character.”
“Every tick, every tock beeps once never beeps again. every second an every minute teaches you and give you a lesson how to deal with the next.”
“Very little of significance has ever been achieved without a goal first being set.”
“I cannot assure you that you will be able to achieve your goals if you write them, but I can assure you that you will not achieve your goals if you don`t write them.”
“ACHIEVEMENTS CONQUER HEARTS”
““There is debate as to the most destructive forces in nature- tornado, tsunami, blizzard, etc. FEAR causes more destruction than all others combined.””
“Let's pretend not to be Rock Stars”
“The Truth is life will drag you down, Kick you and for a while you will think it has got the better of you but at that point, when you're right at the bottom the only way out is onwards and upwards, It's a steep climb but with the courage you have earned in your life you will have the determination to be everything you dream and more.”
“If life gets too complicated and starts to look like a mess, Do what an Artist would, Screw up the painting grab a blank Canvass and start again.”
“It is said that music is a universal language, but it can't be concluded that everybody knows music. For me, everything has wavelength, as a platform where all things communicate.”
“Before having anything for yourself, you must always ask yourself. 'Do you want it' or 'Do you need it'?”
“you are your biggest obstacle”
“When writing a new song I like better, it makes me appreciate the song I wrote before that I didn't like as much.”
“It's easy to tell a story but it takes balls to be a part of it until the story ends.”
“Many times in life we are to busy looking for what we want. Which makes us blind to the fact that we already have all we need. Family, friends, and love...”
“To become a legend, you must first conquer all doubt & then perform total inexplicability.”
“Sometimes discipline drains the great creativity.”
“You had my pat and destroyed it but my present and my future you shall not have No part of. For you were just a fly that always bothered me, a moron who will never be smarter then me, and a TV that I have decided to keep on mute because your voice irritates the hell out of me!!!!”
“Once an event occur in our imagination it already exist.”
“Mediocre people will continue their mediocrity, but they can not stop a Genius.”
“Religions are like vocational subjects in life, so choose wisely.”
“Mediocrity always get confused between wisdom and cleverness.”
“Craziness encourages creativity not discipline.”
“A person with imagination is the majority.”
“My imagination is greater than your knowledge.”
“Today, it is very easy to find light, sun on daylight, lamps on night. Let us enlighten ourselves with knowledge and virtue, because there will be time when there won't be any light surrounding us, except light from the enlightened.”
“inspiration is like static electricity/ i'm rubbing my cloth over here/ on the crystal shaft of poetic allusion/ and over there....you are/ waiting for the charge that leaps the gulf/ may we all be blessed in these magical exchanges”
“If you're feeling stressed you're most likely experiencing unfulfilled expectations”
“It takes a thousand truths to build a reputation as an honest man, but only one lie to build a reputation as untrustworthy.”
“After you have closed the door of your house the only peoples inside is your own”
“All want to a winning team; yet few want to pay the time.”
“'Forget' is the white blood cell of cognition.”
“I've lived my life believing the problems should be complicated, not solutions”
“I've lived long enough and had enough of my firm convictions shattered to realize that what I thought was ridiculous was just an example of my mental limitations.”
“Real friendship is level ground, where you don't have to continually look down to avoid physical or emotional stumbling blocks. Your friends have already removed them, and you can better enjoy quality time with them.”
“Real friendship is common ground, a place in the heart, a haven from the past, where protection, equality, companionship and humor are there on a give-and-take basis. Put in "Your graying hair makes you look distinguished," and take out "Those wrinkles are only seen when you concentrate too hard, so ease up."”
“She says a lot with her eyes. (relating especially to Maureen O'Hara in her movies)”
“So carve your name on
hearts, not stone. What you have”
“So carve your name on
hearts, not stone. What you have”
“You are stronger than your situation!”
“Let me see your muscles - you ARE stronger than you situations”
“To have ones world explored by others, you must first put it on paper.”
“Simplicity is the Highest Derivative of Complexity.”
“I do not write to make money. I write because I need to unload my mind of all my crazy ideas and hope that someone else will find them interesting.”
“Astronomers say that we can see about 1,000 stars at night with our naked eyes. Isn't it a bit daunting that the light from those stars have been traveling for hundreds or even thousands of years to reach us? Isn't it a bit absurd that we don't spend more time looking up? Imagine what we missed. Regardless of how you feel about a Creator -- he, she or it can cook up a hell of a cake.”
“Those that constantly wear the garment called the positive outlook are only those that will be fully equipped to withstand the storms of life.”
“Life is a journey but no one said the destination isn't a hard walk.”
“Daydreamers literally wonder into their own little world, yet only few have the guts to share it with the world.”
“In life afternoons & evenings are period of frustrations & discouragements,nights is a period to meditate on the day's frustrations,but mornings is a period of renewed hope.”
“To have world peace, the inhabitants on that world need to be peaceful. Now i can't speak for everyone/everything, but as far as i go i shall be as peaceful as possible,and i recommend that if you to support in the idea of peace then be peaceful too. Although I don't know everything and some might disagree and to those I say do what you feel is right because in a nutshell that's what I'm trying to say also.”
“Our imagination is our invisible partner,it exist but can never be seen physically.”
“Apple introduces a fingerprint scanner? Great, now the thief will also cut my finger while stealing my phone.”
“Make peace with the person you once were and give freedom to the person you are, that’s the best you can do for yourself.”
“The journey of inevitable progression, both physically and mentally, through a constantly evolving world, from the very first heartbeat, to the last... This is the meaning of life”
“There is a solution to every problem... The ideal solution may not present itself but accepting ANY solution guarantees you forward movement.”
“Wounds hide beneath layers coated by time over years.
Until someone scratches those layers exposing wound, fresh as they reappear.”
“Elements of the nature remain same yet every part of the world tells a different story.”
“A thought which does not result in an action is nothing much, and an action
which does not proceed from a thought is nothing at all.”
“The American dream is just that, a dream! If you want a better life, wake up, get off your ass and do something to turn your dream into an American reality!”
“The light through the prism cast a rainbow on my palm, I try to grasp it but it jumps to the out side of my hand. For God's promises cannot be grabbed with man's hands but only received through man's heart.”
“Believe in people more than they believe in themselves, until they believe in themselves more.”
“As a child, we are called liars for having a wild imagination. As an adult, we are called authors.”
“Daydreamers are not slackers, just people with the insight to transform this world into another.”
“Some say that eyes are window to the soul. I say, brainwave is the key to open it.”
“Sometimes something's wrong, sometimes someone's wrong...
but when the wrong something and somebody meets, they can write a history too...!”
“My inspiration does not come from real life, but from a world that runs like a movie, behind my eyes.”
“It's not about what I've done, It's about what I am going to do”
“All minorities sadly look down on one another, but the truth is, there is only one real minority, and that is the elite. Making us;
the overall majority.”
“Karma is a bus fueled only by the truth. Lies are like water, you can fill the tank with it but you won't get anywhere.”
“A lonely idealist once asked a rich realist why he refused to dream. The rich realist looked slightly perplexed and after some deep thought, replied "My dreams I live every second of every day, while you in turn run from yours the moment you awake".”
“By attending to a matter you give it credibility.”
“I'll always be the best that I can be
and be thankful that I am me.”
“Knowledge is light if we had it in full, unfortunately we are all operating at different levels of ignorance.”
“No one knows for sure that that tomorrow won't come, but most people assume that tomorrow will still exist as usual.
This is Toba's Paradox, which means, hope overcomes doubt.”
“Every sunrise sends darkness into hiding but every sunset means the light has gone”
“When your values are clear to you, making decisions becomes easier.”
“Whether an eye or no eyes, whether a leg or no leg, whether an arm or no arm, you can make a difference to day and create a better future. Just try and figure something out. Everyone is what they are now just for a reason..... NOW GET OUT THERE AND FIND YOURS!”
“All minorities sadly look down on one another, but the truth is, there is only one real minority, and that is the elite. Making us;
the overall majority.”
“If I don't recognize you, it's just that you were'nt worth remembering.”
“Economic Emancipation Constitutes Heaven on Earth.”
“It's not how life starts or how it ends, it's what happens in between that matters”
“There is no such thing as supernatural or miracle, just something that is still beyond logic of the observer.”
“A picture is worth a thousand words, therefore, a writer must use a thousand words to paint a picture.”
“Hope is the fuel that ignites light and carries us forward.”
“Life isn’t fair, but that doesn’t mean it’s unfair – it is just different for every person. Life only appears unfair when we compare ourselves to others rather than appreciating our own special, unique self and life journey.”
“Be original, express who you were born to be and be happy in who you are”
“Regardless of what people may say about you just remember that you are beautiful, special, and one of a kind!”
“Every day is a perfect day to love, I rather you have love-hate relations than hate to love.”
“In high school, I never got asked to prom. So I live like every day is prom for me!”
“FORGIVE and you'll be FORGIVEN!”
“Real learning isn't just about memorization and grades, let those mirror turn into windows. Follow your heart. And don’t settle!”
“You are a champion and I’m gonna hear you roar.”
“The season has also given a reason to embrace umbrellas and rain boots. From the damp seats to the wet grass and blackened soil in the park, the rain has released a bunch of fresh smells. The charms of the wild rose, new-mown hay, baked bread, buttered popcorn, smell of coffee, frying bacon and the smell of rain hitting dry ground! Everything felt a little bit livelier. Best smell was rain itself. No smell at all but only a washing-away, a cleanness and yet another chance to start again.”
“Sticking to my beliefs and goals, and washing away my bad qualities is the holy bath of destiny.”
“It is only when you try learning something a multiple number of times and fail it multiple times that you will really know how it is done.”
“A mistake is a sign that one is trying to become better. Do not give up. The more you try something the better you become at it.”
“It's better to live a short life in naïve bliss than a long life in saddened truth”
“those who don't dream have nothing to wake up for”
“The same defeat that breeds change also breeds victory.”
“We are born men, but God wants us to die like him.”
“To get what you have never had, you have to think what you have never thought.”
“One characteristic of winners is they always look upon themselves as a do it yourself project.”
“The good of a few far outweighs the evil of many.”
“Life throws a lot of curve balls in your life. We have to learn to catch them.”
“The most perfect things in life are your mistakes!”
“Before you can really start setting financial goals, you need to determine where you stand financially.”
“Your consciousness is separate from your physical self,
And there is nothing that can define it no religion, no culture.
You truly are only flesh and blood on the outside which blends into this alternate world of physical things.”
“Only fools get what they want, while others keep thinking.”
“There is only one thing that makes us Human, that is love we share.
Without that we are just empty souls.”
“It's been a huge inspiration for us and we've been walking tall around the athletes' village over the last couple of days.”
“Its the law of nature,:The ripples you create in this world will find you someday!”
“One of the inspirations for this show was Bill Nye the Science Guy. He talks a lot about inspiring young people to study math and science. . . . I wanted to influence people to think more about math as an everyday language that they can use.”
“I buy bullshit only in my free time, not when i work!”
“He/She who does not enjoy stupidity, hasn't had much fun in the past!”
“Most people get selfish, when others are inconsiderate.”
“If you believe in GOD, then why pick one off the shelf. It's almost like looking at a grain of sand standing on a beach!”
“Success is made by the bold, not given to the fearful.”
“Tom had encouraged me and been an inspiration to me.”
“Walking away from bad situations and negative people sets a healthier tone for the rest of your life. It also gives those who do not know any better the opportunity to self-correct.”
“When a bully is held accountable for his actions, his future actions will change. Bad behavior only continues for those who allow it.”
“When you are always ready for the worst, then the worst is likely to show up”
“People that criticize the harshest usually are the ones who would trade places the fastest”
“Never allow dogmatic interpretations of Karma to keep you from defending what is right or just. You must accept the reality that on occasion, you may very well be the proper instrument of this cosmic force.”
“The greatest asset to the human experience is the ability to navigate one’s emotions. By practicing the skill of detachment, one can successfully step back from the potentially destructive and tune into the purely positive.”
“When you have experienced the depth of your inner self, the idea of enlightenment is no longer a goal to strive towards, but rather an attitude to maintain.”
“Your only limitations are those that you impose upon yourself”
“Enlightenment is nothing more than moments of self-awareness. Don’t let cultural spiritual hierarchy intimidate you into the mindset of unworthiness. You are divine already, you just need to realize and accept it.”
“Never put yourself in a position to be made an example of”
“We must empower our weak to be strong, and teach our strong to be compassionate. This will open a door to oneness”
“She is my helper. Being close to their age, she is an inspiration to the students. They see what she can do and want to follow.”
“We are figments of the same imagination… We are one.”
“Never allow your ego to diminish your ability to listen.”
“When you refuse to entertain the possibility of a solution because you “know” it will not work, then you have successfully strengthened the problem at hand”
“Things do not happen to us… They happen because of us.”
“Negativity is a debilitating disease. It is a slow and painful way to experience life. It attacks the immune system, creates anxiety, and can lead to loneliness and depression. Finding your inner harmony is the quickest way to alleviate the methodical destruction of this dark energy.”
“Everything you WANT, you need to GIVE first!”
“Finding the calmness or serenity in oneself effectively diffuses the judgments of others.”
“If you can't make it don't break it.”
“The road to spiritual enlightenment is an individual experience. The spiritual leader, guru, master or teacher is only a portion of that journey. Eventually, one must “leave the nest” so that they are not limited by the master/student relationship. True advancement begins when the student gains confidence as a practitioner of self-awareness. This can only be done without the constraints of another’s journey, such as the master or teacher.”
“The ripple that travels across water does not begin on its own. In order to create positive change one must act upon the intention. Creating a new idea is simple, but is just the beginning. Manifesting an idea into our perceived reality, the physical world, requires action to begin and diligence to maintain, just like any habit that already exists.”
“Even an expert has room to improve, grow and learn a little more. All the great masters teach this. For this reason, never allow an expert’s ‘opinion’ to limit you in any way, whether it is with your intellect, accomplishments or illness and disease.”
“Anything worth having doesn’t come easy' is a perception of negativity perpetuated by misery looking for company. Accept nothing but the opposite of this intention and soon your life will navigate away from perpetual negative thinking and outcomes to the endless positive quality of life that exists for all of us.”
“Unrealistic expectations often lead to disappointment, while simple unbiased attention and detachment to outcome often lead to pleasant surprises.”
“A compulsive external search only leads us to the interpretation of another’s path. True identity and sustained harmony can only be achieved by turning inward, and it is there that you will find every answer that you need to step into enlightenment.”
“Science has proven that subatomic particles can exist in two places at once. Since we are all made up of these particles, then this simple fact should drastically re-define every limitation that you think you have.”
“Many people think that believing in alien existence is really a folly. Well, it is totally acceptable as common thought in a normal condition. I just wonder if that kind of thought will still apply in an unusual circumstances.”
“Think of a world where 'Detachment', 'Gratitude”' and 'Empathy' were subjects included in every grade school’s curriculum. A new generation would emerge with an attitude of peace, contentment and an overall appreciation for everything and everyone.”
“To be whole simply requires paying attention to oneself.”
“You are a victim only when you have decided to play the part.”
“Discipline and guidance are two of the best forms of love one can give to another who needs it.”
“Do not limit your Sacred Space to the literal, such as a small room or office. Allow this energy to flow from deep within, so that every where you go, no matter what the circumstance, you will always be immersed in the divine.”
“If the existence of Nuclear weapons has taught us anything it would simply be that just because we possess powerful technologies, it does not necessarily mean that we should use them. Unfortunately, we are currently on course to learn similarly grave lessons from other devastating technologies such Genetically Modified Foods, Chemtrails and HAARP.”
“Maintaining one’s health in today’s toxic rich environment requires proper rest, hydration, an abundant intake of nutrients, and regular internal cleansing practices.”
“Sooner or later everyone will get what they deserve.”
“Sometimes you just gotta wear the tinfoil hat.”
“When you take a moment to peel back the layers of time and space in your current state of perception, you soon begin to realize the true nature of the self and it's reality. Increasing your self-awareness naturally fosters compassion and integrity in all actions and attitudes towards oneself and others.”
“Attaining bliss can take lifetimes, or one can simply choose to experience it in their deepest dreams. Sleep well my friend, as dreams are vehicles that can quickly take you to the awareness that you call Nirvana.”
“Just like in the eye of the storm there is always comfort within the chaos. Becoming aware of this however, is your responsibility.”
“The very way that you think is a crucial component to your overall health and well being. Living towards the negative will only foster conflict and a sense of lack, while living towards the positive will create more opportunity for you to experience harmony and abundance.”
“To get something done, you must first try to get it done.”
“Desperate people do desperate things ( I originated this quote in the early 1980s at the Maryland Training School for Boys)”
“Wisdom is knowing people for who they are not for what we want them to be.”
“one single moment of introspection can bring about a serious path way for realization and undoing our bad deeds and wrongness”
“The future is unlimited for those that have unlimited dreams.”
“Angry obsessive thoughts about another weaken your state of mind and well being. If you must have revenge, then take it by choosing to be happy and let them go forever.”
“There are many things which can not be expressed by words.
There are many words which can not be spelled by human tongue.
There are many tongues which utter one single truth.”
“Who has time to be pricked by thorns, when there are flowers all around.”
“My throat chokes up, tears fall from my eyes, and my heart cries out tonight. Our children are fighting, for their lives almighty, my GOD please make them alright.”
“Be creative, turn your problems into poems & make your life lyrical.”
“Stop the mindless wishing that things would be different. Rather than wasting time and emotional and spiritual energy in explaining why we don't have what we want, we can start to pursue other ways to get it.”
“To be extra-ordinary in life,go the extra-mile.”
“Looking for a job will provide work for you only,but looking for ideas will provide work not only for you,but also for others.”
“The more the comma's in your life the better.”
“Adversity - If need be, let it bend, but never let it break you.”
“Do not allow consumerism to dictate your spiritual practice. You need nothing more than your focused attention to gain enlightenment.”
“Tendrils of snow drifting along the beaten track, Bright sun shining through the lingering cold above, Warming my frame removed so far away, A fluttering of aspens at the fringe hearkens, I trudge along not yet weary, Remote peacefulness besets my mind.”
“I am the giver of life, part of every person. I am in the sky, a rainbow, a cloud, a humid day. I am of the Earth, in misty spray of waterfalls, and the serenity of lakes. I am passion and sorrow, sweat and tears.”
“The key to keeping negativity away is not to entertain it.”
“Try something new today, you might just like it”
“Love who you are and love what you do never stop dreaming or it wont come true”
“Storytelling is at the top of a short list of experiences that define us as human.”
“Love is like a novel, But with you its a picture book.”
“Do not be distraught by the stormy times in your life. For when the clouds part and the sun shines again only the strongest and those dearest to you will be left standing.”
“Be a model that motivates movement.”
“You can measure the character of a man by how he treats those he stands to gain nothing from.”
“Never cry for the wounds that you have earned....
B'coz its a mark of remembrance to show the world that you have fought for something...!!!!”
“Life is as a Vapor, use it wisely”
“The Differance between, idots and stupidity is idiots try and fail, stupidity don't try and fail”
“I was asked the other day what it was like to become father? It’s a moments so raw and real that you really have to experience it yourself. For me it was the most unifying moment of my marriage to date. It cannot be topped in its pure magnitude, power, and emotion. If you didn't know what it meant to love before you cannot help yourself after it’s done. You will be in awe at the power of a single woman, the resilience of an infant, and be swept off your feet at the power of God and nature.”
“Let it be because you had the most guts instead of because you were better than the rest!”
“Miracles happen every day in our lives, if we had the ability to recognize them, then we would realize that the power that creates them is within us.”
“It is necessary that you create small successes to encourage yourself to create larger ones. This will guide you in all your endeavours”
“People will pay you for anything they value. The value is in you, You just need to create it.”
“Every time I step out of a ring , I feel tougher than before regardless whether I have won or lost”
“A can-do attitude is all one needs. It acts like a bridge between success and failure.”
“I believe in creating history, than reading it. Everyone can read history, but only few can create it.”
“I may have lost the fight but I did not lose the battle”
“Life is about a game that makes you a loser,
Hope is about restarting it,
Living is about fighting it back!”
“When a loved one dies, don't think of it as their gone, think of it as a new journey.”
“You are not sleeping to dream, Your sleeping on your dreams. Wake up and make your dream your reality.
Pioneer T. D. Williams”
“Yes I have fear,
but My Mind is Clear,
so Fear is no Deal !”
“The greatest reward of fatherhood for me is simply watching my son smile at me. In life I cherish the subtle moments more than any of the major ones. The rationale is simple; for every major milestone we reach there is an expectation to celebrate them all with good reason. But I live life for the intimate moments...the moments that can slip past us if we are not aware...the moments that seem so ordinary to us until one day we wake up yearning to relive them again.”
“Life will give me what i want,as long as i give whatever it takes...”
“If you heartly ,honestly want to learn a thing,Don't learn it.Let it seep into your veins and let it become a part of you.Make it A HABIT ,because a habit never leaves you alone. -Mahak Khanna”
“Listen to the great, there is a reason they are called great.”
“If we try to understand the universe solely by our own way of thinking, then we will be limited by our own senses and mind.
If we learn the universe also by understanding other creatures' way of living, then we are in the right track to grasp everything.”
“Any fact facing us is not as important as our attitude toward it, for that
determines our success or failure. The way you think about a fact may defeat you
before you ever do anything about it. You are overcome by the fact because you
think you are.”
“Love, Happiness, Friends, Families and God are a part of me and I will never despise them but honor them with all my heart, mind, and soul. #2-Jaime P.”
“Shout out loud FUCK YOU life I ain't done with you.”
“Love, Happiness, Friends, Families and God are a part of me and I will never despise them but honor them with all my heart, mind, and soul. #2-Jaime P.”
“When all else fails and you have no one to turn to and God himself has forsaken you, cast your pain and sorrows to the open sky ,weather the sky is cloudy, sunny or just plain shitty be witty and turn back, and just plain walk away and dont reel them back.”
“At the end we only live with the memories ,People do change as seasons”
“You care so much for that special person because it feels like that person is part of you.”
“The more of us with education, means less struggle for the ones after us. The doors ARE locked, and we have the KEYS. Make copies... for the locks, they have not changed.”
“You can think of your body in two ways: 1. As mechanical, like an automobile worth only so many miles or 2. As a living breathing energetic vessel manifested from spirit. Either way will greatly effect the length and quality of your life. Choose wisely.”
“Keep your eyes on what you want to achieve and work at it until you achieve it”
“Old things become new when slight modifications are done to them”
“All men dream, but not equally. Those who dream by night in the dusty recesses of their minds wake in the day to find that it was vanity; but the dreamers of the day are dangerous men, for they may act their dream with open eyes to make it possible.”
“KNOWING THE WORLD DOES NOT MAKE A GREAT DIFFERENCE, BUT MAKING THE WORLD TO KNOW ABOUT YOU MAKES A GREAT DIFFERENCE”
“EVERYONE IMAGINE AND FORGET BUT ONLY FEW AMONG THEM IMAGINE AND CREATE. DO YOU WANT TO BE ONE AMONG THEM?”
“Mediocracy will always lead to monotony, but Passion can take you to places you never would've imagined.”
“Move on, don’t let the little things of Life hold you back. Forget, Forgive, and Move on.”
“it's in the hardest times you need to look around your hardest and see what you really have”
“Learning is like a boundless sea, only diligence can reach the shore.
- Chinese proverb”
“I love challenging women of different backgrounds; not to show who is better, but to show who can be the best as well for humanity.”
“Decide how much you want to be earning one year, five years and ten years from
today. What will you have to do to achieve these amounts.”
“Stars cannot shine without darkness.”
“If you are not the best at what you do, then it is not worth it”
“What will make you a star is in you”
“when a sparrow eat,
we can't say she's eating ,
but Actually we say They are eating.”
“The most important thing in life, is the 9th letter of the alphabet... I...”
“Don't waste your time trying to please the world when that's something God himself can't even accomplish.”
“Sometimes you just have to jump off the edge of mount-everest to see if you can fly”
“Any branch of tree that cannot sustain you cannot kill you either.”
“Living on yesterdays Victory, is like living on Todays Failure”
“Don't make someone your main meal, if your only their desert”
“Sacrifice - let go of the negative”
“If anything is possible, then any problem is solvable”
“It is nice that when you talk to the strings with you'r hands, the guitar wi'll reply with a rhythmic and harmonic sound.”
“When you play a bass, be sure that you are playing the beat of the heart of music”
“It is important that we know that we can each offer to this world what nobody else can”
“''The First word is Learning and the Last word is GOD ''.”
“You are powerful. Use your power, help someone”
“Warm your heart, warm your soul and watch your world expand.”
“If you don't give them the stage they can't perform their drama.”
“Life is like Chess, Every move you make Counts”
“Friends are like Roses, they all have thorns”
“Today's been a long day, and so will the next. But giving the effort equals success.”
“One thing can happen, but another can fight it. Don't think it's impossible unless you've tried it.”
“One thing can happen, but another can fight it. Don't think it's impossible unless you've tried it.”
“The smallest can be capable of something larger than you. Don't be stupid and underestimate too.”
“One thing cannot describe their truth. But they can describe the truth to you.”
“Fulfilment in life comes from doing the things that makes you happy and achieving the results that you are proud of”
“No one is perfect, but we all fit in the puzzle of life.”
“To create something new requires doing something in a different way”
“I sleep with the lights on, a pen and a paper to write on”
“The story of your life is never complete without your failures, successes, pain, joy, sickness, health, fears, faith, loss, gain, and your relationships. Put it all together and you have a great story”
“Let's meet tomorrow, Tomorrow”
“You crazy dreamer you heavy sleeper, you sleepwalker a dream maker.”
“If you are truly an interesting person you never feel lonely even if you are.”
“Know your art. Stay with it.”
“Zeal without knowledge is the sister of folly.”
“If you're going to be a devil, be a devil with a conscience; because a devil with a conscience has the potential to be an angel.”
“When we are motivated by goals that have deep meaning, by reams that need
completion, by pure love that needs expressing, then we truly live life.”
“An apology can be a wonderful thing so long as it is infrequent and from the heart. However, beware of the person who justifies bad behavior with apologies. For them it is a means to an end, and quite often at your expense.”
“You can’t control external events, but you can control your body, mind and how you react to them.”
“No matter what happens, or what someone says, it will not change WHO I AM.”
“No matter what happens, or what someone says, it will not change WHO I AM.”
“Life is a burden, not everyone knows that. You should be glad you are alive to witness our changes.”
“All of it has been really inspirational to us. To not play as hard as you possibly can would be disrespectful.”
“It takes a strong person to not hate the whole because of the few.”
“Hold on to your dreams, things will happen that will discourage you but still, hold on”
“People who take delight in putting you down will end up destroying your self-esteem. Be wise, deliver yourself from their influence”
“The first and the best victory is to conquer self.”
“You are different from everyone in the crowd, that's why you are you”
“The best thing to give to your enemy is forgiveness; to an opponent, tolerance; to a friend, your heart; to your child, a good example; to a father, deference; to your mother, conduct that will make her proud of you; to yourself, respect; to all men, charity.”
“Remember not only to say the right thing in the right place, but far more difficult still, to leave unsaid the wrong thing at the tempting moment.”
“A change of pace adds renewed enthusiasm to one’s mind. Add travel and adventure, and the mind discovers awe”
“To be a somebody, you must do what nobody does.”
“Life is as long as you live it.”
“Do what you feel like and exactly as you feel like and if he/she is the one, he/she will love you for all that.”
“We try to teach our children about life, but our children taught us what life is all about.”
“Just like money, hobbies make you feel good but it comes and goes.
Passion for something knocks you off your feet, almost kills you with dedication and you love it for the rest of your life.”
“Love should not be spelled but felt!!!”
“Fruit of life doesn't tends to taste sweeter unless you sow the seeds of hard work”
“The men who succeed are the efficient few. They are the few who have the ambition and will power to develop themselves.”
“There are young people with brighter dreams for the future and when you look into their eyes is always glowing because the light in their heart is reflecting through their eyes.”
“The problem with people trying to sell faith is, they are actually "selling" it.”
“Don't ever think that regret is always a mistake, and mistake is always a regret because one day, You will realize that this things is also the things that matters in our life!”
“I enjoy waking up every morning to my best friend who stays with me through the good and bad. My bestie always shows me how I am feeling inside. When my bestie talks I listen, when bestie frowns up I adjust and when I am happy we rejoice together.
THANK YOU..Oh dear reflection in the mirror for showing me who I really am.”
“All things are possible if you remain in tune with your subconscious being.”
“Authenticity is the new sexy, even more so authenticity is the new success.”
“Life can be risky, but look away from the risk, take charge and move on”
“The pen looses passion within and gently paints emotion on the canvas of our hearts.”
“"Sometimes our state of mind is so out of balance that we are blind to the little steps achieved; creating that ladder to our success. Open the heart to a brighter tomorrow! ~ ©pdsherwood, 2013”
“"Take me as I am, because I am Able"! ~~ ©pdsherwood 2012”
“What can you want? What can you possibly be seeking, if you are already everything you seek?”
“We as humans do not love the objects and desires of life. We are in love with the consciousness that allows the perception of the desires and objects that we seek.”
“You are worth more than you think you are”
“You have not lived until your reason for living is greater than yourself.”
“That you did something bad is not enough to make you a bad person”
“We all have a duty to define who we are”
“Why limit yourself to being just a human body? Why not be everything?””
“"NEVER ABANDON THOUGHTS AND DREAMS THAT MAKE YOU HAPPY, FOR ONE DAY THEY WILL HELP YOU TO MAKE THEM BECOME REALITY!”
“When things are changing, just get into the flow”
“There is more to life than you know”
“There is more to life than you know”
“What you believe should not stop where your understanding ends”
“What you believe should not stop where your understanding ends”
“The world of a writer is a world of imagination reduced to letters”
“Imagine a debt free me. It's possible”
“The ‘belief to win’ is not a crime,rather ‘believing to fail’, is.”
“Life is an unending adventure”
“If you have marketable qualities which are in high demand then your NEGATIVES are no longer a hurdle for a successful career”
“Nothing to lose for a bean not recognized, its the taste of the coffee which lacks”
“People are creating things everyday yet, there is space for more”
“People are creating things everyday yet, there is space for more”
“The winds of life will blow away the sands of time exposing the bones we have buried behind.”
“We can inspire people everyday however it is up to them to become motivated and take action.”
“Everyone has both good and bad in them. Love the good and leave the bad. If you can, change the bad too.”
“Mind what you say when someone is listening”
“YOU ARE BEHIND THE WORLD BECAUSE YOU ARE DOING WHAT THE WORLD IS DOING,BUT I AM AHEAD THE WORLD BECAUSE THE WORLD IS DOING WHAT I AM DOING”
“Today stands in between yesterday and tomorrow. Yesterday is gone, tomorrow is yet to come. Make the most of today”
“If there is a tiny glimmer of hope at every sunrise then success will follow when the sun rises.”
“Live life like a leaf, flow in the breeze, and let only the future choose when it's your time to fall.”
“Be who you are, not who you are wanted to be, because your life is yours, Not theirs.”
“It takes courage to make change and even more courage to make a difference!”
“I've seen the unseen through the power of imagination. This power is going to lead me too.”
“Never get to the point where you cannot see anything good about yourself”
“A man shouldn’t perceive himself of ‘what he tries to be!’, nor ‘what he can be!’ rather ‘what he ought to be’.”
“When there is no reason to be happy, that's all the reason you need to happy”
“You do not say 'It's classified' to a certain thing needs to be hidden, because people are going to find it in anyway possible. Say it in a way with your language that gives people a benefit of the doubt.”
“You are good enough, yes you are”
“Something good can still come out of a bad experience”
“When you employ a strategy, you offer it up to the world to be used for or against you”
“You are unique. No other person looks exactly like you”
“We are a generation of prophets, speaking words that shape our lives and world”
“My mother taught me very early to believe I could achieve any accomplishment I wanted to. The first was to walk without braces.”
“Live everyday as it comes, have hope for a better tomorrow”
“There's no such thing as PERFECT or COMPLETE...only continuous improvement.”
“Do the things that makes you stronger, healthier, richer and better in every way”
“One, who embraces fear, learns to master it.”
“Work towards a better you”
“If you can only believe in things that can be seen by your human eyes, then your belief will only last until the time when you will think that your eyes deceive your mind.”
“Eternity smiles at you from my lips.”
“Those who have true power share it, while those who hunger power abuse it.”
“Do what you love with strong passion and your dreams will become a reality”
“I want to dissolve with the sky to let everyone breath me in as an inspiration .”
“You must elevate your body to levitate your soul”
“You can either be the man who teaches others about the men who revolutionised or you can be a man who is”
“Be bold, you just have to ask”
“We should focus more on creating a solution where there is none”
“We should focus more on creating a solution where there is none”
““It is the chance Law of Nature is giving you when you are hit rockbottom - TO BOUNCE BACK AS HIGH AS YOU CAN, HIGHER THAN YOUR PREVIOUS ACHIEVEMENTS!””
“Why wait around thinking about doing something, when you could be thinking about why you were waiting to do it?”
“A man can get discouraged many times but he is not a failure until he begins to
blame somebody else and stops trying.”
“Building a nation starts with you and what you do”
“Life can only be understood backwards; but it must be lived forwards.”
“You cannot please everyone. Don't try to or else you will breakdown”
“The “nobody is perfect” is the theory that prevents people to search for their perfection, then they become proud of their imperfection!
The “nobody is perfect” is the theory that prevents people to see others perfection, then they accuse everyone of imperfection (including themselves).”
“Relax, take a deep breath, and realize life is sometimes an uphill battle. Chaos is an absolute and mistakes are ones necessity; so it’s okay! Just be sure to make it a lifelong obligation to get your ass up when you are face to face with the deepest soon to be erupted sunken volcano and promise yourself to fly as high as the stars will take you. Such an effortless thought could be your golden ticket to a better day.”
“The common reason why human mind is so difficult to accept and believe in the alien existence, actually has something to do with the possibility of the existence of some unknown creatures, which may far more advanced than human in terms of knowledge and know-how, yet at the same time people assume that human is in the top level of food chain pyramid on this planet earth.”
“Make today yours”
“If the person you're with doesn't encourage you, inspire you, comfort you, defend you and adore you; they don't deserve you.”
“Let them own the world today.....soon you will own the universe...”
“Never believe in small dreams,for it leads to no where but to a Small world.”
“Dont love a gift more than the giver”
“The longer you dramatise your dreams in your mind,the more potent it becomes.”
“If you think aright,your world will be aright.”
“The dreams of the few mould the future of the many”
“Not every opportunity you have to better your life is the best for you”
“Dont EVER EVER EVER let ANYONE tell you to delete pictures you've taken with your camera. Professional or not, you don't know, it might be the last portrait of that person you just photographed.”
“Dont EVER EVER EVER let ANYONE tell you to delete pictures you've taken with your camera. Professional or not, you don't know, it might be the last portrait of that person you just photographed.”
“Have you walked with GOD on Earth’s battleground. Seen your Brothers and Sisters dead, buried six feet underground. This Memorial Day we pay homage to our Heroes that have passed. For brave soldiers of wars and disease, our flags fly half mast. Whether lost for our Lady Liberty, or a valiant fight against malady. We salute you our Loving Brave Heroes from now to eternity.”
“Chasing your dream is amazing, being great at it is sucess!”
“If you don’t give, you don’t share; if you don’t share, you die alone.”
“The world will never say 'yes' to your dreams, it will always
say 'No'! Only you can say 'YES' and live it BIG- Omotayo
Ayodele Omolayo.”
“There are two primary choices in life: to accept conditions as they exist, or accept the responsibility for changing them.”
“You may stand alone, but you move together.”
“Put your mind to it and you will do it. This is how the impossible become possible”
“Put your mind to it and you will do it. This is how the impossible become possible”
“Few will have the greatness to bend history itself, but each one of us can work to
change a small portion of events, and in the total of all those acts will be written
the history of this generation.”
“A time comes when you have to let go and move on”
“There Is a thing that every person in this world has and it is something that cannot be taken away;when everything or everyone you know or have seems to be against you and you need a reason to go on,it is that moment that thing comes in your use and that is hope.the world runs on it.”
“In light of good intentions, never fear the consequence.”
“Having them here was a big inspiration. They are the ones who made St. John's a name with how they worked. For us not to come out and play as hard as we could would have been disrespectful to them.”
“Meditation on success guarantees success.”
“Life is so interesting because there are so many dreamers.”
“To begin a thing is the hardest,so also is dreaming,for without dreams you can never have a dream come true.”
“Music has a way of getting me back on track despite all the frustrating and sad moments..”
“Believe, Dedication, Succes”
“Once you are determined, you are good to go”
“It's up to you to be anything you want. This should make you sober”
“Music has a way of getting me back on track despite all the frustrating and sad moments..”
“after a break-up people always claim that things will get better, and in fact they do... but not because we in fact ARE better but that the pain, has beaten every last ounce of feeling from us. after we are wasted away, because food and drink seems to be like sand being choked down, and sleep is no comfort because you know you'll dream of them, and have to wake with knowing they'll not be there. after all this is accepted, we are what people claim is 'better'”
“There are people who believe in the existence of angels, but do not believe in alien existence. There are people who believe that aliens and angels are the same creatures. But there are people who are much worse, those who have seen and met angels, and witnessed the presence of aliens, but does not admit even the slightest about the linkage between both. And the worst thing is, they even try to maintain the status quo.”
“Acting is not just about escaping into the mind of another person; it's about translating whom you are inside into the language of another person's mind."”
“the key to excellence is to never be proud of yourself”
“Your talent is a gift. Develop it”
“The Gift of Life is a Treasure. Some fill it with Pressure . . . some with Pleasure!”
“You cannot be everything. Define yourself”
“The only thing a person should take with them to their grave is their faith, the only thing they should be remembered for is their integrity and the only thing they should leave in the world is their legacy.”
“Think grand thoughts today so your dreams can become your visions for tomorrow”
“The person who thinks he can only think small & the person who thinks he can only think big & the person who thinks he can never think a thought,are all very correct.”
“Better a person who cannot see but sees a better tomorrow,than a person who can see,but does not see a better tomorrow.”
“If people want to find something that will not likely be detected by conventional human senses, then communicate with someone, or some other creature or thing that could detect it with a kind of sense that was not owned by a normal human.”
“life hurts us in every one or the other moment of life and its purely ones own choice to get back on feet and fight the situation”
“Humans are the only creatures smart enough to envision that God doesn't exist, yet dumb enough to act in accordance to that vision.”
““You become a man when you give your family the best of who you are.” ― Carew Papritz, The Legacy Letters: His Wife, His Children, His Final Gift”
“If you wish to achieve something and THINK its not achievable…..don’t waste your time and move on to something else.”
“How can you forgive when your constantly reminded”
“With proper idea, the Right Tools, Hard work and Persistence; everything you hope for will fall in place.”
“We make our future”
“I’m very thankful and grateful for my health; I feel so lucky to be continually gifted life, while sadly, so many loved ones around me have prematurely passed away.
I recognize that every day is a privilege; with this extra grant of time, I wish to enrich, inspire, share with, pray for, and love on all those wavering, anguished and in need of support.”
“Can you live without understanding life? Can you experience life without living? Be sure to make both your personal acquaintances.”
“Listen, Listen, Listen; The one most powerful life changing tool that is seldom used.”
“Basking in the Sunshine,
Caress of your warm glow,
Cast beneath a spell of passions,
Lost of all control.”
“Something that is now of great value, was once just an idea.”
“Wild abandon release the pain?
Healing not yet to be gained,
Mind and soul yet wrapped about,
Dreamer's hopeless wish abounds.”
“Soft sweet memories haunting,
Bring waking awareness to my soul,
Bleed out upon this page,
Thoughts of beauty not let go.”
“Seek another such matched dance,
Fall again under such a trance,
Can such dreams again be found?
Love at last not let down.”
“Even in rain, we can be facinated with sensations of beauty in the world, sight, sound, smell, and delicate cold touch.”
“Be friendly and you will have friends”
“Person should learn something new every day; consider it a waste of the day, the day goes without learning”
“You cannot solve a problem without knowing what the problem is”
“The secret to a rich life is to have more beginnings than endings.”
“Let your life be remembered, not merely as one that existed, but one that showed the true meaning of love”
“Any fool can criticize, condemn and complain and most fools do.”
“I have the greatest responsibility of my life...it's called MYSELF.”
“Following other peoples lead will not always bring success.”
“Maturity is often confused with age, but age is irrelevant in all aspects of life.”
“When life throws you a personal quote, WRITE IT DOWN...NOW!”
“When life throws you a personal quote, WRITE IT DOWN...NOW!”
“Try, try, try and try is the key to success. Trying will not cost you anything.”
“Sing like no one's listening, love like you've never been hurt, dance like nobody's watching, and live like its heaven on earth.”
“The future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams.”
“Three things you need to be able to do in life, tell a lie, know when someone's lying and the ability to live a lie.”
“Everyone calls a successful person a genius; every genius who’s not successful people call him mad”
“Our environment, including the physical body, reflect our inner state - what we are inwardly, our eternal nature. When we renew our mind and transform ourselves, our environment responds to this change automatically.”
“More than fortune, more than fame...is the love of the game.”
“An individual being will go through lives and events in cycles on earth until it learns those specific lessons that it had come to learn in each incarnation.”
“Diversity means: My eyes are transparent (I don't see color), My ears are neutral (I don't hear accents), and my emotions are humble (I respect all people).”
“There is an inherent unity and harmony in the universe. The divisions and disharmony we find on earth are created by the perception of separateness that people developed over a period of time.”
“When we realize the truth that every creation is an individualized portion of the Creator and we are always one with It then we are ready to live in harmony.”
“Many do not have the courage to face the truth of life and instead dwell upon some delusions to escape it. Any such escapism is a major hurdle in spiritual development.”
“Without fail, refuse to fail”
“When we understand the mechanism of life then we can cooperate with it and live an abundant life.”
“When we change, our environment also has to change so as to be in alignment with what we are.”
“By knowing the fundamental rules of life and aligning with the same one can live a happy and peaceful life.”
“Family is the most precious thing I ever have.Because,they are the people who worry about me in my sorrow.So,though I cannot feel happiness of my own life,I would be living for my family,for their happiness until my death.”
“Mind can comprehend things only at its particular level of vibration. As the mind become calm and quite it can see and understand deeper things.”
“Spiritual Laws ensures that every entity will be at the exact place where it has earned the right to be, by all its previous thoughts, words and actions, including those of the previous lives.”
“Eating is exercise of the teeth,walking is exercise of the body & thinking is exercise of the mind.”
“I am a witness for God not man”
“its better to be humble submit surrender and sacrifice than to be prideful selfish sinful and stubborn”
“you cant stop the process of Gods plan because of what man is doing or not doing”
“Passion and understanding is in your heart not your mind”
“Your win is within. Reach.”
“You in me and me in you, not many people know this to be true.”
“You all claim your neighbor is arrogant, insufficient, or incompetent, yet you have yet to discover what YOU are.”
““Do good do bad, who really cares? Be great be remembered then they’ll all care””
“You will soon become too visible to be ignored. Just keep doing your thing”
“A King may lose his image, but never his crown.”
“Your money is in what you know. Use it and be wealthy”
“Your money is in what you know. Use it and be wealthy”
“•	A PESSIMIST SEES ONLY THE DIFFICULTY IN EVERY OPPORTUNITY
•AN OPTIMIST SEES THE OPPORTUNITY DESPITE THE DIFFICULTY
•A REALIST WEIGHS BOTH THE DIFFICULTY AND THE OPPORTUNITY
•A NIHILIST SEES NEITHER THE DIFFICULTY NOR THE OPPORTUNITY
•AN IMBECILE WASTES THE OPPORTUNITY AND IGNORES THE DIFFICULTY (USUALLY TO HIS DETRIMENT)
•A WINNER EXPLOITS THE OPPORTUNITY AND LEARNS FROM THE DIFFICULTY.
By SANJAY SRIVATSA WITH APOLOGIES TO WINSTON CHURCHILL”
“Problem and Solution are mutually exclusive events. Because when you have a problem it means that you don't have a solution, but the moment you have a solution you nolonger have a problem.”
“My silence doesn't mean that I agree to what you say. It could be a sign of ignorance too.”
“Communication is the key fuel for a relationship to sustain. Trust and understanding is also formed because of communication.”
“Your win is within.”
“Relationship is like a CAR.
When ignited, needs constant fuel to maintain the ignition.
If not re-fueled on time, the engine starts to rot and eventually the engine collapse.”
“I like to fall asleep cause I can see u in my dreams. I love to awake cause I can see my dream is real.”
“You are what you believe in and what you are fighting for.”
“Every major decision I took in my life was like a battle, tough to win, but worth fighting for.”
“There is no distance or time, we feel in our hearts.”
“Music should be something, which is open to everything and that opens your eyes to new and unfamiliar things. I believe strongly that music is one of these things in life, which is able to cross boarders that seemed insuperable before.”
“The talent you truly have is that which you posses when there is no expectation of you to succeed”
“I'm not in denial I'm just a positive thinker”
“Happy relationships belong to those who don't expect to much of each other”
“Jesus is coming. You can QUOTE me on this!”
“The Origin Of Innovation and Entrepreneurship Is A Creative Mindset”
“To contend with persons or situations we find to be stressful is to survive.
To enjoy the company or comforts of those we love is to live.
But how often we find ourselves in a position where we have to survive just to live.”
“Everyone should strive to be a world citizen. Boundaries were created by man, not the Creator. There is no such thing as THEM vs. US. There is only "WE"”
“Teach all men to fish, but first teach all men to be fair. Take less, give more. Give more of yourself, take less from the world. Nobody owes you anything, you owe the world everything."”
“Never fear Death for you will feel aroused by his sleep. Never cheat death or he will slap you with a sentence of misery for the defeat”
“Love is the sister to Truth, but they differ in two ways. You must go to Truth to find her. She will never come looking for you. However, you are never to go looking for her sister Love. Love will find you in your own divine timing, when you are ready for her. So don't look, she will come. She always does.”
“How a man perceives substance dictates the amount of substance in a man. To know the depth of anyone's true substance, simply measure the weight of what consumes and excites their inner drive”
“In love, treat your relationship as if you are growing the most beautiful flower. Keep watering it, tend to its roots, give it lots of sunlight, and always make sure the petals are full of color and are never curling. Once you neglect your plant, it will die, as will your relationship.”
“The number of ways you can live in one lifetime is limitless. So why limit yourselves? The sky is NOT the limit. Beyond the universe is.”
“Even heaven would become hell if you were alone in it, or away from a loved one. And even if you were with your loved one, but in hell, eventually you would cry to have you and your loved one together in heaven. So to create your own heaven on earth, make sure you and your loved one are in a place you both LOVE, because what could be heaven for one, could be hell for the other.”
“Just move on with your life”
“When there are no lions and tigers, dogs rule the forest.”
“Intelligence is not fixed. You can learn more, know more and do more”
“Intelligence is not fixed. You can learn more, know more and do more”
“Create something beautiful and let it go.”
“Create something beautiful and let it go.”
“Even when someone you love has passed, you have to keep living no matter what. You only get one life, don't waste it!”
“If you're feeling low, don't despair. The sun has a sinking spell every night, but it comes back up every morning.”
“Music for me would have been a Religion. If there was anything I would worship after God and My Parents then its definitely music.”
“Seach for a new dress in the boutique and you will first give money”
“Alcohol talks lasts only for few hours and then it's all the same.”
“If the world doesn't understand you, fart and move on.”
“Jamming is happiness shared together.”
“Masturbation - The best shortest meditation of all.”
“People with negative energies are more dangerous than human bombs.”
“You are unrepeatable. There is a magic about you that is all your own...”
“Be kind with your thoughts, caring with your words, and gentle in your actions.”
“Let your fountain be filled with a consumable flow.”
“The end product of imagination is creativity, and the end product of creativity is beauty.”
“IF YOU WANT TO BE THE BEST YOU SHOULD TAKE DOWN THE BEST BUT IF YOU ACT BEST THEN THE BEST WILL ALWAYS BE THE BEST”
“The HEART where the truth belongs, where love originates, where beauty resides, where pain strikes,where time is the best medicine, where people connect, where emotions begins, where life is manufactured, where we belong, where everyone deserves to be happy,where feelings arise, where the poor and the rich have their own priceless pulse. Heart the engine of a dreamer.”
“When your beloved one dies, don't worry. They just went to a town, outside the world, where you will go in the future. Now your duty is to grab the things that you want to gift them when you meet them there.”
“Truth is first felt in the heart before the mind. Those that look for truth through the mind before the heart will never find Truth.”
“If you can't describe what you are doing as a process, you don't know what your
doing.”
“Never follow the man who tells you to follow him. He is only telling you to follow his motives and mind. Always listen to the man who speaks through his heart and does not tell you to follow him. He only wants you to follow the teachings from his heart and not his mind. A man who tells you to follow him will turn his followers into his company, while a true leader who does not tell you to follow him, will sit in the company of his followers.”
“The desire to succeed and an inspiring dream, anyone who will apply him or herself, and strive to improve themselves, can achieve their dreams and goals.”
“There is no wall ever made which can't be broken”
“A mind full of creativity guarantees a successful life.”
“Separate yourself from the gloom and doom seers. You won't do well with them”
“In life a positive mental attitude is the major ingredient needed in solving any problem.”
“Every dissappointment ultimately turns to appointment to the persistent & patient soul.”
“All of it has been really inspirational to us. To not play as hard as you possibly can would be disrespectful.”
“Life sincerely expects us to beautify her with our dreams.”
“Life's irony;You can be old in age,but young in the dream world.”
“Self-belief is the very foundation of every success in life.”
“Your Spontaneity is a sign of honesty, cover it with some caution to save it's purity.”
“You can work with the little that you know and have”
“Great people can be proud, but the greatest are always humble.”
“First be a man of morals, then you can be anything.”
“Health is your wealth or is it making you poor?”
“There is no greater view of the world, than through the eyes of a child.”
“Truth be told,every relationship got its own ups and downs, it is wise to stay there and search for solution than running away from your problems”
“EVERYONE RECALLS THE DAY, BEFORE THEY GET INTO SLEEP, BUT I MAKE MY TOMORROW BEFORE I GET INTO SLEEP”
“Each life comes with opportunities it's what each of us do with our opportunities that makes us different! You are what keeps you from!”
“Don't Just Let it Happen, Make it Happen!”
“Even when faced with unpleasant circumstances in life,see a rosy future.”
“To engage in one of life's most hectic assignment is to think.”
“To avoid disappointment, NEVER expect anything of anyone. One's expectations can only be fully met by one's self.”
“Next second you have equal chances to live and die. You are not frightened about it, why are your frightened about other things?”
“Although Golf was originally restricted to wealthy Protestants, today it's open to anybody who owns hideous clothing.”
“Our true colors bleeds through when the way we’ve lived slips into our current relationships as a freak slide show.”
“Oh, my luve's like a red, red rose, That's newly sprung in June; Oh, my luve's like the melodie That's sweetly played in tune”
“One must grow out of where he grew up like old shoes.”
“Be not afraid to pray for fear of the answer being a "No." That fear is more of a reason to because when I finally did pray, I felt good about the "No" and was fearless in the eyes of uncertainty.”
“As a person tunes to a radio station to listen to a particular programme,so also should your mind be in tune with your dreams at all times,no matter the circumstance.”
“The body is like gold in a gold mine.healthy food choice and exercise gives the dedication to refine it.”
“Just because I cant fly, don't think you can keep me on the ground.”
“Life is like a boxing match. When you get hit you have ten seconds to get up before you lose, but if you do get up punch back and remember how great it felt when you look back after going the distance.”
“Life's irony;Ideas can transmute into reality & even the poor can become rich.”
“Expectations inspire us to live for every second we pass of our life span.But there are moments which we cannot bare,we cannot be patient and we are desperate to loose our lives.Humanity is the tolerating everything in life and overcome all the difficulties we have to face.The best decision is to postpone to decide on things of life,when desperate thoughts weakens our minds.This makes us to protect humanity in us.”
“There will usually come a time, where aspiration outweighs ability. Yet those who never try, never realize what their ability actually is.”
“The most ugliness we see in others, is but a reflection of our own nature.”
“People who look down at you, are afraid to look up.”
“You are in the people business no matter what you do or where you do it.”
“Building something from your heart is amazing, Creating something from nothing is astonishing. Giving it all to someone makes it special.”
“What is the point of living, if living is not the point?”
“Creativity is original, and no matter how it is inspired in you there exists that originality that differs your process from the next.”
“For one is just a number and no more is needed to be great.”
“Be the light that burns brighter every day, so that you continue lighting the paths of others.”
“Those that are liberals are not just for change but part of it. For when liberals come together they not only change what is now, but what road is to be taken later.”
“All good things are not cheap and all cheap things are not good. Know your self-worth and keep it priceless.”
“Did you ever see a government pray?”
“Feeling moody? Snap out of it! Have a bowl of raison d'etre, a strong cup of joe, and head to the gym … and don’t forget your vitamins!”
“Frown not upon your short comings for they do not measure your greatness, but frown heavily upon yourself, for harbouring thoughts of your own inadequacy and for not ever trying.”
“Time flows like a stream that joins little lakes flowing into larger rivers. And just as how the vast emerald ocean cannot tell the point at which all the rivers met, my spirit cannot decipher the beginning of my love, neither its end, spiraling like a flaming circle, enveloping my heart, your name burnt within my soul…an infinite eternity.”
“I dont want to be broke down I want to be built up and vice versa I dont want to break down but build others up! but sometimes we need need to dismantle parts of our life so they can be rebuilt to stand stronger and longer!”
“The essence of trust is not in its bind, but in its bond.”
“As you allow an illuminating love to enter your abode, there is only one lamp that will shine the brightest and longest, the light of your soul.”
“Define yourself within your own existence. Your Soul is original so become your own creation.”
“The most difficult thing in the world is to know how to do a thing and to watch
somebody else doing it wrong without comment.”
“Let your soul be lit with the ghee (butter) of wisdom and the wick of virtue.”
“Let no man turn aside, ever so slightly, from the broad path of honour, on the
plausible pretence that he is justified by the goodness of his end. All good ends
can be worked out by good means.”
“Be that rose, though even amongst the strong winds, let your scent touch the world in a sweet way.”
“The part of a paper you don't want to clean your buttocks with is the part you find your self using the most. The problems you're skipping in life is the same kind of trouble that follow you where ever you go. What happens when you use the part of the paper you don't want to use? It appears no more. Same as your problems when you face and solve them you don't meet them again.”
“A field of sunflowers is always confronted by thunderstorms, yet it still sways in the breeze. Similarly, before you excel in any path there will always be obstacles. Be that sunflower and rise and shine against all odds.”
“People deal too much with the negative, with what is wrong...Why not try and see positive things, to just touch those things and make them bloom?”
“When we see God in all life forms, only then do we begin to see God Himself.”
“Friendship improves happiness and abates misery, by the doubling of our joy and the dividing of our grief.”
“When one begins to foster a sense of tolerance and respect towards humanity, only then can one who is a human, become humane.”
“Real insight comes from deciding, either the world is beyond you, or you are beyond the world.”
“A faithful friend is a rare gem and he who has discovered this; has found a priceless treasure.”
“Be faithful to your very own existence because ultimately…you are your own best friend.”
“Be faithful to yourself and never sway from your path.”
“The very essence and elixir of life...is our only gift to treasure.”
“Whilst blind faith is more insightful than full vision; to listen with your soul is more receptive than full hearing; and to speak with your heart is more perceptive than full verbalisation.”
“It's not where you start, it's where you finish.”
“The Key to Life - Leave it better than you found it.”
“FOR EVERY SUCCESS ATTAINED, THERE'S A PRICE PAID.”
“Never race against your destiny, always race against time; since your destiny is fated till eternity, whilst your time is fated till probability.”
“Keep people in your life who light your flame, rotten apple's spoil the rest.”
“A man may conquer a million men in battle but he who conquers himself is indeed the greatest of conquerors.”
“Why let society make a change in you when you can make a change to society?”
“Never be afraid to state your thoughts, for all the greatest thoughts were once stated.”
“There are two regrets in life :
You get what you don't want. Or you don't get what you want.”
“When you do something, do it from the love and sincerity within your heart.”
“Everything in life is momentarily and temporary; even life in itself lives on borrowed time.”
“Never be afraid of what you fear because in this very fear lies your strength to embrace the unknown to become known, so that you face it positively.”
“The sun never moves and the storm is just passing through.
Pioneer: T.D.Williams”
“What you see…is not what you always actually 'see'. Blind faith is much more guiding than full vision.”
“The mind is the greatest lens of perception where you can either view the world through a peep hole or magnifying glass.”
“It is not important how the world views you but how you view yourself.”
“An open and transparent personality is like a flawless diamond; rare and priceless with no inclusions.”
“Darkness can never be eliminated by further darkness, it can only be diminished by greater light; since even the dark needs light shed upon itself to know its value, worth and height.”
“Do not fight negative energies; rather dilute them with positive energies.”
“Always radiate positivity in every direction regardless of the surrounding since it doesn't reflect your environment, it only reflects You.”
“Successful people steps outside the box but stays within the circle.
Pioneer: T.D.Williams”
“Silence can be a powerful healing or a dangerous weapon. It can either uplift your soul via meditation or destroy another soul via miscommunication. Use it wisely.”
“I am who I am destined to be…”
“Always ensure that your shadow which follows you is never confused by your identity; because that magic of yourself...is found only within you.”
“the man overrun by emotions loves more and loves better than the man with distant emotions. Then again Romeo over there loses a lot if his love fails while the distant emotional man does not. Then again he might have been the Romeo so at least he didn't lose his experience and remained wise. But if he became ignorant well...”
“The fragrance of a flower is only smelt by the living…life is for the living…so live it.”
“Remove your hand from that self-destruct tool.”
“True courage isn’t knowing when to take a risk; it's knowing when to walk away. Always hold onto what's destined and let go of what's fated.”
“Life is like the sea, the more you drink from it the more it thirsts you”
“Every child can learn. It is a matter of how the teachers teach.”
“Slaves are always Masters. When you suffer just being a slave today, upon all your struggles you turn up being a master tomorrow. Slave now is a Master tomorrow.”
“One spends so much time fighting with those who don’t matter than fighting for those who do matter.”
“Happiness comes with the subtle understanding, that, the only thing in this world you possess dominion over, is you.”
“There are doors within our lives which are gateways to our destiny. Never fear or fight a closing door because when one door shuts, another shall always open.”
“If you begin to find the alien by using common sense, then you have just narrowed your searching area.”
“Love can even awaken the dead because love is Life.”
“You never achieve real success unless you like what you are doing.”
“Peace is a harmonious musical strength which enriches your soul.”
“Dream bigger than imagination leads to success beyond expectation”
“Plant that seed of faith, sprinkle some fertiliser of hope and inspiration, water the soil with your love and courage and watch the magic grow.”
“Having them here was a big inspiration. They are the ones who made St. John's a name with how they worked. For us not to come out and play as hard as we could would have been disrespectful to them.”
“Neither money nor authority can rise above the Power of the People; because the People are the Power.”
“The museum resembles a cathedral. I'm sure that gothic cathedrals were a big inspiration. There was a time when people thought that art museums were replacing cathedrals and churches as a place where you could have a transfiguring experience.”
“By striking a balance within the heart and mind, allows for the soul to reach equilibrium.”
“Handle relationships gently because they bruise easily.”
“What's important is not only respect to others but respect to one’s self since self-respect is the highest form of dignity.”
“Your purpose today is self-upliftment; never self-destruction.”
“Life is like a movie wherein we are actors role playing each day. We create our own memories, direct our own lives and write our own destiny; all of this until our producer above decides He wishes to change a scene. Whether this life movie is a hit or not lies in one’s faith upstairs.”
“One of the inspirations for this show was Bill Nye the Science Guy. He talks a lot about inspiring young people to study math and science. . . . I wanted to influence people to think more about math as an everyday language that they can use.”
“You can't force magic...but you can be prepared, rested and in balance while it is on it's way”
“Animals live lives greater than humans'. Animals don't worry about the future.”
“Let Self-Confidence Build your Motivation.”
“Get back on-track after being derailed; your journey has just begun.”
“Go beyond your limits and believe in your own strength.”
“Only you can soar to your very own heights. Only you can dive within your own infinite depths. Only you can decide where you wish to take your destiny to, because that magic is found only in you.”
“It is at your lowest point where you have the highest urge to dig deep within your soul and harvest that very willpower to energise you.”
“Time is the only commodity which cannot be bought or sold, both in life and death.”
“Only you have the power to consent to become enslaved in your own mind.”
“Life is all about choices, even if your choice is sour, never give up because the sweet one does come along.”
“Only you have the power to transform your destiny.”
“Just as how the body, once a seed of pollen, sprouts and blossoms into a flower, so too does it wither and perish.”
“A candle is always lit to ignite the soul in further self-realisation.”
“Truth never changes since it is a constant principle, but people change as their perceptions are variable.”
“In life, the strongest test is never in ignoring the distant critical voices, but in listening to your innermost soulful voice.”
“Challenge your vitality daily, strongly pursuing your visions and values; follow your gut, quench your desires and climb that mountain until victory is yours.”
“We always see the beauty of the sunflower but never imagine the power of its seed. Grow your mind and bloom beyond all fields.”
“Always acknowledge the goodness in people around you and give credit where it’s due.”
“Women are the architects of society; building strong foundations within their sphere; being the pillars of love and strength for their families; constructing and creating peace and harmony within the environment as they engineer the dreams of the future generation.”
“If you don't believe what I tell you, then what can I say. I've no rights to coerce others.
If you don't believe it from people you trust, then you have to prove it by yourself.
If you don't believe your own senses and mind, then you may have to revise the way you believe in something yet alien and unknown.”
“living in fear is not living... buy yourself a nice gun that'll blow peoples mind, literally.”
“Don't be so busy making a living that you forget to enjoy your Life. Today, make a commitment to Enjoy Life.”
“A negative mentallity gives us many excuses why it can't be done,but a positive mentallity gives us one excuse why it can be done.”
““"Faith will take our talents to future projects of progressive change!" ~ ©pdsherwood, 2013””
“Not everything you want,you get, and not everything you get, you want.”
“To build a forest you must first plant and nurture the seeds.
Pioneer T.D.Williams”
“A wise person recognizes the bad intentions of others. A smart person walks away as soon as they recognize those bad intentions.”
“Taking a step forward or backward takes the same amount of energy.”
“To know the true nature of the tree is to inquirer the roots.
Pioneer T.D.Williams”
“The only way we know if we have arrived is to know where you have started from.
Pioneer T.D.Williams”
“What you feed your soul, consumes your soul, and your soul becomes what it consumed.”
“Sometimes, I give a time to think a bit about whichever term is more suitable, 'the missing link' or 'the lost sibling'.”
“Being normal is fake,
But being you is true.”
“Being normal is fake,
But being you is true.”
“It’s not about fighting for your right or standing up for your right, it’s all about believing in your right, because when you believe it is then you accomplish.”
“Perfect your skill to become wealthy, recognize your passion for Non-Profit, when both skill and passion become one in the same the pursuit of happiness will no longer be a pursuit.
Pioneer: T.D.Williams”
“As I stood on the precipice of life, absorbing the exhilarating mountainous air; I realised the depth of my words...The World is your Oyster, Go grab it!”
“Like animals, our mind is an engine of dreams; what separates us is the capacity to realize them - use it.”
“If everyone took down their walls of defense for an evening and sat round in a circle to shared their bag of pain and sorrows, they'd all realize they are much more fortunate than they thought, and less burdened, and someone somewhere understands and has been through it and they are not alone. Then we'd all leave happier and lighter than when we first came.”
“It is far too difficult to change the course of a river. Me, I simply follow the river and change the course of my raft.”
“There's no doubt that people die unexpectedly, don't take today for granted”
“If your love for humanity supercedes any other thing in life,excellence beckons.”
“Make a mistake and I'll take your money!™”
“There are people who happily welcome change in their lives. However, there are some who do not seem to want it. And yet, they constantly wonder and question why their lives aren't still any better.”
“"When you are not looking, they find you, the people that you always missed when you were looking."
-Rachael Jancowski, 2013.”
“Make a mistake... I'll take your money!™”
“You should never have to minimize your greatness so that others feel more comfortable”
“"May love & laughter light your days and warm your heart & home. May good & faithful friends be yours, Wherever you may roam. May peace & plenty bless your world with joy that long endures. May all life's passing seasons bring the best to you & your's.”
“Happiness is not something that can be given to you, it is something that is controlled deep within oneself.”
“The deeper the fall,the higher the rise.”
“Once that dream can be imagined,it just shows it can be accomplished.”
“In life opportunity will certainly rear it's beautiful head for the person that continually remain in business.”
“When you are looking for something, you keep stabbing. take a step forward and the goal appears by itself.”
“Fairness means when you able to kill your friends while you help your enemy.”
“Fail for victory, fail for dignity and fail for fantasy.”
“Why walk when you can dance?”
“The content of one's mind should be spoken clearly through one's action”
“Be You, Because Being Somebody Else Is Another Persons Thing”
“The most difficult thing to do is to have a fake smile on your face even when you know everything is not okay.”
“The actions we embark upon now, will determine if our country will metamorphose into a rainbow land of a democratic and free society for every single citizen; regardless of race, religion, gender, tribe and caste… (on the transformation of South Africa)”
“The greatness of a glorified soul who even in death…unites the nation… (on the death of Nelson Mandela)”
“I can teach you all that I know but I can't make you intelligent.”
“Because statistics and odds, are just numbers to discourage you from your dreams.”
“If at first you don't succeed, try, try again.”
“Never let anyone drive your emotions. The person might be a bad driver”
“A am realistic-I expect miracles.”
“It is good to have big dreams,but starting with small dreams shows you are ready to realise your big dreams.”
“The greater the adversity, the greater the conquest, the greater the glory.”
“If you desire less, you will discover more.”
“Admit to Life, Believe in Heart, Conform to Love, Defend to End.™”
“Admit to Life: to be mortal is to be certain of nothing else.™”
“Success comes from believing it will be so”
“Never, ever deny the value of your declaration.”
“Agape ...
Within, Without, No Doubt ...
From DNA to Milky Way ...
Beneath, Behind, Beyond, Between ...”
“At different stages of my life I made different mistakes, at times costly ones. But I never for once regretted my mistakes, I always learnt from them in such a way that I make such mistakes only once.”
“If not You ... Who?
If not Here ... Where?
If not Now ... When
... You Who ...”
“Do not ride upon other's passion, but ride upon your own; for an exuberant spirit prevails aloft in the skies of happiness and ecstatic life.”
“Some were born to die.. Some born to live. Some born to be great.. Choose your route..”
“Some were born to die.. Some born to live. Some born to be great.. Choose your route..”
“The Biggest challenge is to cross the slim line between 'THINK' and 'DO' !!! :)”
“Life is temporary, do the impossible to make people in the world say "What is impossible? Wait, nothing is, you made us realize that :D"”
“The less material things you desire, the more freedom you’ll discover.”
“Smother your words and actions with careful consideration, for once done, the flow of time cannot run backwards.”
“Analogy of story of a scientist who is trying to reach the higher speed:
An ant child is exhausted after a long walk in a body of a flying airplane, hoping to find a kind of method of traveling which is faster than just walking.”
“Only Mortality is Certain™”
“Nothing in life is too good or bad it all just accumulates into a very interesting journey.”
“Be the sunshine amongst a sky full of clouds.”
“If you think you can, or you think you can't, you’re right!”
“Obtaining knowledge is like a puzzle, ones you get the bits, and pieces, you and piece it all together into one.”
“"Life Is All About Balance,Being Able To Take A Little From Each experience And Mold it Into Your Ideal Life You Always wanted".”
“True wellbeing lies in showing love & kindness towards ourselves first. Then we have the capacity to love & nurture others, & the world around us.”
“When we are doing that which makes our heart sing, we feel upbeat & energised about our lives. We become in touch with our own radiance & we find beautiful synchronicities begin to evolve around us.”
“If, at the moments of your death, you can feel happy, then life was worth while.”
“When you know you're right, don't change yourself. Change The World”
“There’s nothing more forgiving than a new day; every new day affords new chances.”
“Change – Commit – Conquer”
“To fail is not to succeed, but to succeed is to fail over and over again”
“I know this will end soon and my feelings of sorrow are turning towards hate, we as one are terminally ill it's only a matter of time before our souls leave this place we created for us both.
What's left is haunt. Soon to be a place we take our next first love, these memories will taint and corrupt like a blood thirst demon causing more trauma then it's worth. Leaving hopeless running heartbeat corpses in seek for a pulse we've taken for our own broken bodies.”
“I know this will end soon and my feelings of sorrow are turning towards hate, we as one are terminally ill it's only a matter of time before our souls leave this place we created for us both.
What's left is haunt. Soon to be a place we take our next first love, these memories will taint and corrupt like a blood thirst demon causing more trauma then it's worth. Leaving hopeless running heartbeat corpses in seek for a pulse we've taken for our own broken bodies.”
“Life's like a yoyo always up and down and eventually it stops. Live your life to the full.”
“The choices you make today, pave the path of your future.”
“The only time my prayers are never answered is on the golf course.”
“A correct step is more valuable than a hundred incorrect steps”
“Maths is like a pit, as deep you see,
is much better for you to achieve every goal.”
“Be clear about what you want and go for it”
“Yesterday has passed, live for Today, as Tomorrow is not a promise.”
“Attitudes, whether positive or negative, are highly contagious. Would you want someone to catch yours today?”
“We must live with dignity when we exist.”
“I prefer to have scars and accomplished than to have a lot of ammo but be unsuccessful”
“"When you were born, you cried and the world rejoiced.
Live your life so that when you die, the world cries
and you rejoice."
-- Cherokee Expression”
“Technology is driving the world, steered by the human factor, when we stop creating technology based on the flawed human model, we will start creating technological marvels”
“It is not failure itself that holds people back; it is the fear of failure that paralyzes
you.”
“You don't hurt someone with hate, you kill them slowly with love.”
“He's an inspiration to the team. He's got the heart of a lion. There's not enough I can say about him, the kids rally around him.”
“Matthew 6:33
Many of us openly clap hands to those that seek first the kingdom and the ridiculous thing is we criticize those that all things are added unto”
“Wish I am free from barriers when I die,
and Buddha will welcome me from far away.
- Buddha”
“If nobody believes in your dream,then dream bigger.”
“Each Loss Is That Much Closer To Your Next Victory”
“Anything that doesn’t grow, dies. Anything that doesn’t contribute, get’s eliminated. That’s evolution. If that’s true of the universe, it’s probably true of your life.”
“The strength of our love determines our ability to bring the things we find solace into life. exercising your love is the only formula for creation.”
“Entrepreneurs are big dreamers, but dreams can become nightmares.”
“Live it like you mean it!”
“Everyone lives a story. Some stories are examples, while others are warnings.”
“People spend more time growing their financial status rather than their intellectual property.”
“Business always looks good on paper”
“People don't want buy things, they buy feelings.”
“What got you to where you are, won't get you to where you want to go”
“Where there is passion, there is no need for motivation.”
“With programming comes power”
“She said: "its brown and black", I say, "choose color even if you have to use your imagination"”
“UNLESS someone like you cares a whole awful lot, nothing is going to get better. It is not.”
“Honesty is the cornerstone of all success, without which confidence and ability to perform shall cease to exist.”
“I know it may seem small and insignificant but its not about what it is, its about what it can become.”
“Helping one Person may not Change the World, but it can change the World for that one Person.”
“Happiness only real when shared”
“He who knows when he can fight and when he cannot, will be victorious.”
“In times of need we go to our friends,partners,teachers.Knowledge the one that holds your answer."Believe in faith and one father Christ."”
“There is one thing you will always find in my handbag my mentor's book,keeps my brains working and I get to learn from the best.”
“All are different, judge not on appearences, look at the whole, celebrate life and those who seek to do so.”
“It’s not easy to build a bridge from here to there, but it’s essential in getting there; work hard, sweat and build that bridge, then celebrate and walk across to success.”
“The worst stories ever told are the one's we create in our own mind that have nothing to do with reality.”
“Every disappointment you experience in life only makes your appointment day a bigger event.”
“The habits you nurture constantly will soon become your nature.”
“The highest power is that within you; once you believe, you achieve.”
“Even though sometimes it rains on the parade, there is always an umbrella somewhere nearby.”
“I refuse to have limits. If I can’t do something its not cos I’m limited. Its just cos the thing doesn’t know I can do it yet”
“The greater danger for most of us lies not in setting our aim too high and falling short; but in setting our aim too low, and achieving our mark.”
“Never allow poverty & misery use you as its advertising agency for life,rather allow riches & splendor use you.”
“The struggle captures the spirit”
“Life is a test from god, you can either make something of it, pass and succeed, or you can throw it away, fail and exceed.”
“Today's temporary disappointment means tomorrows permanent appointment.”
“You shouldn't worry about what others, think about you. It's what you think about yourself, that makes you the person you are.”
“Mental work is ten times harder than physical work.”
“When a greater appointment is coming your way,it first disguises itself in the form of numerous temporary disappointments.”
“Just Keep Livin life man,do what you want to do thats makes you happy and have the most fun doing it while you are stuck here”
“I've learned a lot. From now on, there's nothing to regret about. Let say, take it or leave it.”
“Just like your muscles,your imagination faculty grows stronger with regular use.”
“Every blessed day, motivation is the only tonic that can aid us to effectively carry out the day's task.”
“Faith means to be foolish with your conscious being,but wise with your sub-conscious being.”
“Fantasy can become reality only if you fantasize with faith.”
“Declare to only Mortality™”
“These capitalists generally act harmoniously and in concert, to fleece the people”
“We never have to be uncertain when we have the God of truth and righteousness.”
“Gib is gay”
“The next time you start to complain about some perceived injustice that took place before you were born, just remember this: If it didn't take place, you wouldn't exist to complain. All events that exist today are related to events that took place in the past.”
“It seems , It is long back i used a pen and paper, In this age of computers, the keyboard has all but replaced these wonderful tools. In the same way that walking provides much more than fresh air, the kinesthetic value of the rhythmic motion of writing with a pen is far more soothing and even healing than most realized, I feel. Moving my hand across the page today i felt elated and unlocked places within me that weren't accessed by typing....”
“Understanding what you need and what you want in life and when you need them is truly one of life's greatest wonders.”
“Your salvation is in your own hands.”
“To show the world you are a big thinker,then start small,for small is big.”
“The true meaning of myself is others first,then me last.”
“Humanity doesn't need to be understood, if you can practice it.”
“Not one has patience, but every one can practice it, if they want!”
“A friend is always good to have, but difficult to be”
“Dreams Are Made By The Person Who Makes Them Happen”
“Focusing on plagiarism is like watching a bad car crash, just keep your eye on the road, drive bye and move on.”
“I don't know about you girls but If I was one, I think funny men would be one of the greatest kind of guys to date, through depression and sadness, a daily amount of laughs is vital for tenacious happiness and love.”
“Life's irony;It is hard to be poor & easy to be rich.”
“The great mind sees opportunities hiding inside problems,but the ordinary mind sees problems hiding inside opportunities.”
“Lack of capital should not make us to lack dreams,for dreams will definately bring capital.”
“Only the big thinkers shall inherit the earth.”
“I have a greater imaginative faculty than you because,i have poverty in my C.V.”
“Go about your dreams as effortlessly as you naturally take the next breath and its only a matter of time before you find yourself giving life to exactly that which you lived throughout the walls of your mind”
“At the height of depression,the moment when you are about to jump of the cliff something happens something that makes you think that there might still be good things out there,things worth living for and you take one step and look at things with a changed perspective.......”
“The greatest lottery prize in life is a brand new day.”
“Never be unhappy by imagining a failure which will never occur. An attempt may fail but you will never fail.”
“The pursuit of true knowledge begins when you have a mind free from doubts.”
“If you are competent, recognition ought to be there sooner or later.”
“You have a brain, a working brain, to use and not waste”
“LIVE a life of success but LEAD a life of significance.”
“I don't come from a place of desperation, isolation, separation, but going forward towards the path of love, truth, and inspiration.”
“Strive for competence rather than recognition as Competence automatically leads to recognition”
“Remember, happiness doesn't depend upon who you are or what you have, it
depends solely upon what you think.”
“Desire for knowledge is impervious and scaling up this desire foments the genesis of ecstasy.”
“Greed and superstition are the parents of all evil.”
“Even when in your small world,always see the big picture.”
“Greater is he who is in I than anyone can deny”
“The magic of every religion lies within the believer's faith.”
“What matters is not how many miles you run… What matters is whether you are having Fun!”
“It's never a waste of time or money to invest in yourself, no matter the source. True wealth begins inwards and emits its light outward into everything else, including the people you surround yourself with.”
“The strongest quality of a man is his gentleness.”
“The past will always be the past. There is no way to change that. The present, in a blink of an eye, will be the past. And the future? That will eventually be the past as well. Instead of trying to go back and change the past, change the future because one day the future will be the past.”
“Acknowledge that there are some forces you cannot change; such as people, nature, time, etc.
But know that you have control over how you take them and act upon them from here on.”
“Some people are always angry,they just smile to look happy.”
“Failing to plan is planning to fail.”
“Let never a man be ashamed of his accomplishments but shame on the man who in vein forgets those who helped him reach his glory beginning with God the Father .”
“Learning a culture is like opening a window, think of life as a Florida summer with no AC.”
“A man who works hard will dig for gold. A man who works smart will sell to men the tools to dig for gold.”
“Ignorance comes in many sizes, colors and shapes, most of them happen to be Republican.”
“A person's character is judged not by how they treat someone who can give them everything, but by how they treat someone who can give them nothing.”
“Money is not the root of all evil, it is the devious intentions behind the beholder”
“Just challenge reality. All damn day.”
“It is our triumph, in the face of adversity; that makes us the special beings, that we truly are.”
“It is our triumph, in the face of adversity; that makes us the special beings, that we truly are.”
“Present Creates Past Which Affects Future”
“We don't engage the impossible because we see the best people we know try and fail. This is why belief in oneself is an overlooked but powerful tool indeed. I'd hate to imagine where the world would be if Thomas Edison didn't believe in himself."”
“Faith is to believe in what you do not yet see, the reward for faith is to see what
you believe.”
“When you fail, you’re at the bottom of the mountain. So get ready, because climbing it is the most fun. The view, however, will make everything worth it.”
“The purpose of learning is growth, and our minds, unlike our bodies, can
continue growing as we continue to live.”
“Aspire instead to be the person who mentored the man or woman who inspires you most.”
“No. We have plenty of inspiration of our own.”
“The initial secret sauce to success is COURAGE AND BELIEF!”
“Hopefully, viewers find some uplift and inspiration in a story that's very grave.”
“Rise like a star to be worshiped like the sun.”
“This is where the difficulty lies. We are lucky when that underground current can be tapped and the secret spring of all our lives will send up its pure water. It seldom happens. A thousand trivialities push themselves to the front, our lying habits of everyday speech and thought are foremost, telling us that that is what "they" want to hear. Tell them something else.”
“There comes time in life when u stop caring, stop loving, stop wondering. That is the occasion when u start cuddling and pampering yourself. Not giving a damn to the world. What a time, what a feeling it is to be in this state.”
“If vision without action is a DAYDREAM,
and action without vision is a NIGHTMARE;
then good vision with bad action is a DISASTER!”
“Pleasing everyone is a game you can NEVER win. Pick your fight.”
“There's a love that only you can give, a smile that only your lips can show, a twinkle that can only seen in your eyes and my life that only you can complete.”
“In a World, filled with distinctive races and unusual beings; we strive towards our vision of a perfect World. Hardship, perseverance; this is what we know, pushing the very boundaries of our human existence, striving towards a better World. We are mankind; true champions of God, heroes of the underworld and descendants, of the stars.”
“Never strive to be too perfect in life,because one man's imperfection may detour your route to perfection.”
“Try your best to convince someone or else you will never be convinced.”
“In a World, filled with distinctive races and unusual beings; we strive towards our vision of a perfect World. Hardship, perseverance; this is what we know, pushing the very boundaries of our human existence, striving towards a better World. We are mankind; true champions of God, heroes of the underworld and descendants, of the stars.”
“You can fool some of the people some of the time and all of the people some of
the time, but you can't fool all of the people all of the time.”
“Rising from a close demise, we shall surprise the world's astonished eyes. Bleeding passion and rage throughout the night, only to win this fight, with such fearsome might. Don't worry my subtle friend; I will be with you in this fight, until the bitter end.”
“The power to dream has been given to man,so we must use it to the zenith.”
“Many years spent contemplating life, finding myself was the key. Then to find out from a fool that it doesn't matter. Fool? I think not”
“No amount of dream is too big to be dreamed in this life.”
“What a privilege it was to breathe, think, feel, see, smell, hear, love and enjoy today; it’s an honor to be alive!”
“Every servant is a leader without authority.”
“The phrase ''Nobody has ever done it before.'' stirrs the great mind.”
“When people are passionate about what they do,the end result is always excellence.”
“Argument leads to understanding, compromise, and cooperation - or war.”
“For faith to cause multiplication beyond your imagination,there must be the ingredients of patience mixed with perseverance.”
“@SShnieder: Waking up to realize the mistakes of yesterday, refine the actions of the present and ameliorate those of tomorrow.”
“The next time that you think you are being beaten down in life, just remember that the universe was created in such a way that even morons can successfully function.”
“" Be smartastic. And why not? You’re smartistic!" Simcha Gluck, FreshBiz”
“Let the world go!”
“I AM NOT SCARED OF ANYTHING BECAUSE, I AM IN THE SHADOW OF MY KNOWLEDGE”
“Life is not about taking something deliberately when you love it, and try getting rid of it when you don't.”
“Sometimes, its hard to accept the "want" that the Lord grants, after an infinite supplications of our's...!”
“Life is an endless search. We keep searching and finding and searching”
“In a tough economy only the extra tough survives.”
“Every wall is climbable”
“Waking up today gives me hope for better tomorrows.”
“If someone considers you as an angel but you think you are not, better try to be one for a change.”
“Sometimes you have to get right up to the wall before you can see the door.”
“Helping to shape the milieu that you wish you had, is a courageous strength that silently whispers upon the conscience of us all. Whether we succumb to the nostalgia, is a matter of pride.”
“The great successful men of the world have used their imaginations, they think
ahead and create their mental picture, and then go to work materializing that
picture in all its details, filling in here, adding a little there, altering this a bit and
that a bit, but steadily building steadily
building.”
“Admit to Life: to be mortal is to be certain of nothing else.
Believe in Heart: create from the core as to stray is to strive.
Conform to Love: precedes every law to reinforce entirety.
Defend to End: never, ever deny the value of existence.”
“Do not presume the possible to be impossible.”
“Satisfy yourself ,no one best in the world beyond your ways!!!!”
“May this New Year bear you great health, energy and character as you strive to achieve your dreams and resolutions.”
“I am not greater than you or less than you, we are equal.”
“I am not greater than you or less than you, we are equal.”
“Consistent and Sincere Efforts transform attempt into success”
“Resolve nothing coming year except managing your self made worries and unhappiness.”
“You’ll never be as inspired as you are today!”
“Failure manifest itself to the person that intends to do too many things all at once.”
“Cowards fear to dream,but the valiant dream dreams that can last even ten life times.”
“The moment you are born in this life,you have unconsciously signed a contract with work,for idleness has no place in this life.”
“For you to be termed discipline,your control must exceed your desires.”
“Waking up today gives me hope for better tomorrows.”
“With age comes experience however the true catalyst for growth is an open mind”
“If at some point you find yourself at a cross road, and one can do this often – find themselves I mean – take time to review,how you've reached thus far.”
“Yet, every time I find myself,I seem to gain a little each time.”
“Expect anything from anybody.. Life is full of suprises.”
“Failure is not an option where love is the way.”
“Expect anything from anybody.. Life is full of suprises.”
“Imagination is unisex.”
“Today might be sour but tomorrow is definitely going to be sweet.”
“Focus on your future, say farewell to your past; make this the year you resolve your resolutions.”
“The character of a hero embodies courage and strength to overcome an outcome regardless the outcome.”
“Character makes wealth, but at one point wealth destroys the character.”
“If you're wishing for a better life, you're missing the point.”
“Rebelution is the imperfection that makes us completely perfect.”
“I am the master of my fate; I am the captain of my soul.”
“illusionating someone to be with you is self distraction, coz' you always think of someone you don't know instead of just thinking about yourself.”
“Today might be sour but tomorrow is definitely going to be sweet.”
“It is hard to attain something, but its is even harder to maintain or keep it, once you have it.”
“Language is a form of communication shared by those who understand it. Speak love, not judgment, and see who shows up.”
“Think positive as it's the ultimate reality.”
“There is no owner's manual for how you live your life.”
“Like infinite strands of twinkling lights, we too shine uniquely and connected, a countless array of beaming brilliance.”
“) A choice can only live in the past and present but the future is waiting eagerly to react”
“A dreamer doesn't look at what is happening,but what can happen.”
“Argument should not be looked upon as negative. Without it there is no discussion.”
“Sometimes we upset the one's we love-our friends and family. Not to make them angry but to find out what they really think of us.”
“If you ever want to 'unlearn' negativity, remember what it's like to fall in love, and do that--with yourself, daily.”
“Sometimes life doesn't goes as you planed or dreamed & instead of sitting alone, wondering & thinking, trying to figure out where you went wrong, just look up, move forward & start a new plan, a new dream.”
“Learn how to rethink, and you start to change.”
“We think a flower on a cliff is beautiful
Because we stop our feet at the cliff's edge
Unable to step out into the sky
Like that fearless flower”
“Heroism is all about discovering our purpose of life, exercising the Power of ONE and affirming the Power of Intent which we are all blessed with. The Seriousness of intent and Honesty of Purpose can help each individual awaken the hero within.”
“They can kill, harm, exile, imprison, destroy/ defame a person but not an idea. They can co-opt/ corrupt a person but not an idea. An idea that becomes a collective movement & ideology. A collective ideology cannot be killed, harmed, exiled, imprisoned, destroyed, defamed, co-opted or corrupted. This shall always prevail and stay as an ideology of the people collectively.”
“One's dignity may be assaulted, vandalized and cruelly mocked, but cannot be
taken way unless it is surrendered.”
“Stories are how we think. They are how we make meaning of life. Call them schemas, scripts, mental maps, ideas, metaphors, or narratives. Stories are how we inspire and motivate human beings. Great stories help us to understand our place in the world, create our identity, discover our purpose, form our character and define and teach human values.”
“I don't think I am better. I just know better”
“A lot of people with a lot of ill gotten wealth may think that they have high net worth, but will simply never be worthy of any trust or respect.”
“Be mindful of your actions for they will either inspire you or haunt you the choice is always yours.”
“Real Humility is when I can treat a minister, a prince, a priest, a teacher, a waiter and a janitor with the same and equal respect.”
“Memories are meant to be a gift--a powerful point of focus to create ourselves a heaven, but often misused for hell.”
“I believe that everyone is a hero, a leader, a volunteer, a teacher and a champion of change. All we need to do is acknowledge and understand this and then help others to also understand the same. That’s all it takes to be a hero, a leader, a volunteer, a teacher and a champion of change.”
“Love the way you live, its a secret key for Happiest life..!!”
“In a world that is becoming increasingly dangerous and materialistic, there is a dire need to help people discover their purpose and understand that we all have a need towards investing in an egalitarian, humane, just and responsible society or otherwise tomorrow eve our own children shall be unsafe.”
“It is tough to identify opportunities during the day & tougher to identify them at night.”
“Namaste is a term that finds its origin in India means the God in me salutes the God in you. This means that every human being has a God in her or him. I wonder where in time we forgot this wisdom and started treating fellow human beings as untouchables and backward classes.”
“"The only thing that separates success from failure is one last attempt. Try one more time and you will get lucky." Apoorve Dubey”
“The saying guard your heart with all diligence simply means,lock your heart to all negative influences & unlock your heart to all positive influences.”
“At times fate allows you to go through tribulations in order to teach you vital lessons & also bring out the genius in you.”
“Sometimes things don't have to be perfect, sometimes things just have to be.”
“My importance to the world is relatively small. On the other hand, my importance to myself is tremendous. I am all I have to work with, to play with, to suffer and to enjoy. It is not the eyes of others that I am wary of, but of my own. I do not intend to let myself down more than I can possibly help, and I find that the fewer illusions I have about myself or the world around me, the better company I am for myself.”
“Never deny the value of your destiny.”
“We have been supervised by my mother who’s leaving words of advice were “If your not sure go to the doctor, its your first kid they expect to see you”.”
“The best present you can give today is your presence.”
“The world deals good-naturedly with good natured people”
“What we fill up in our minds is what we get to drive on.”
“"Life is an opportunity for us to contribute something that outlasts us and makes the world a better place."-Apoorve Dubey”
“Just because you aren't in love with someone...doesn't mean you can't do something with love for someone.”
“Don't be afraid of what you don't like.. Because it’s not ours...!!”
“Embrace what you would resist and it will melt away into the warmth of your heart.”
“Keep budding your thoughts, that will teach good lessons to our successful life..!!”
“You are the sole architect of your dream world & you alone can dictate how you want your dream design to look like.”
“Love - the ridiculous game of Life..!!”
“I might as well stop living, if I am willing, to easily give up.”
“Whenever you get comfortable that's when you let life pass you by”
“When you have standards you are bound to be disappointed.”
“All sweetness and glory, a rose never shrinks from its magnificence.”
“Five years from now, we will be a different company, and five years from then,
we will be another different company.”
“If you're not giving the world the best you have, what world are you saving it
for?”
“There is nothing more refreshing than total honesty.”
“we use Hope as a trump card when its clearly not at all times. Right dose of it has always remained a mystery.”
“If you say sky is the limit, your dreams ain't big enough.”
“Don't 'BE' because you HAVE to ... 'BE' because you WANT to!”
“The best don't take pride in what they do, they take pride in how they do it”
“If everyone you meet is a mirror reflecting you back to yourself, make sure to find a way to love what you see.”
“It is better to die young rich in love, than to live long amid poor principles.”
“You can save money but money can't save you.”
“Unless there are inspiring inspirational occurrences in life, overall growth in an individual's life, personal as well as career, would not progress up to the mark.”
“You never know how important something is, until it's gone.”
“Set high expectations for yourself, good fortune will be your reward.”
“I think we dream so we don't have to be apart so long. If we're in each other's dreams, we can be together all the time.”
“Unique thoughts breeds unique ideas.”
“Learn, Inspire, Fight, Excel ... that's LIFE.”
“Never complain in life,but learn from your mistakes & begin afresh.”
“Patience & perseverance equals faith.”
“Always put your hope in your ability,for the infinite only manifest himself in your ability.”
“I've realized that it's ok to not have a lot of friends for as long as you don't make a lot of enemies. That's what we call keeping the balance.”
“Our savings in this world are not what we have today, but what we give to others - Sam Vonumu”
“Learn, Inspire, Fight, Excel ... that's LIFE.”
“Do not be afraid of your accusers because time will come where their evil schemes would exposed”
“When you have both positive and negative thoughts about something, that not just ambivalence--it's a blockage.”
“I HAVE AWAKEN! Are you? Are you just treating your life as if you're asleep? F*CK, WAKE. UP. and smell the beautiful fragrance called LIFE!”
“Sometimes acting is a everyday routine for someone, so stop judging the book by the cover, and begin to read the pages”
“Life is like a house. It needs a good foundation (infancy) and support beams (preschool, toddler and school age). There are minor repairs (adolescents) that need to be assessed and fixed. The house is then sturdy and ready to enjoy (adulthood). As the house ages (elderly) it may need minor touch ups. However, with a good foundation and structure we can enjoy it for years to come.”
“Just like everything else, LIFE has an expiry date, so make sure you use it, before it goes to waste!”
“A hug from a child is god's way of telling us we've done good.”
“Looking back on past failures only prevents you from seeing the path of success that is right in front of you.”
“It can't always be better but it could always be worse”
“You can't learn anything new if you think you know it all”
“Society has decided and made up its mind on what failure is. The real definition of failure is : Stoping my journey all together. Failure then, is simply - my destination is not wrong I merely employed the
incorrect route to get there. Simply change the route... God makes provision for U-turns in life!”
“Life is like the game super mario brothers. Remember as a kid when you were trying to pass levels 1 and 2? Then you attempt to conquer level 3 and you keep dying too fast, while others far more advanced than you breeze through it and you get to see them through to the end conk the boss on the head and the princess waddles out. Well, I'm done repeating levels 1 and 2 which is now boring to me. I'm now on level 3 and I'm not giving up!!”
“Instead of the WHY, work more upon the HOW of everything!”
“A wasted life is one that is dedicated to material things and self.
A rewarding life is one that is dedicated to God and others...”
“Drink life down, Empty the bottle, Taste, sip, guzzle, As to how, It matters not, Just drink life down.”
“Burn bright soul, Scream to the heavens, Seize what life offers, Warmth will be in remembrance, When light extinguished.”
“Knowledge is Power - control and steer it wisely towards excellence.”
“Life is not what we decide, its what we living and realizing daily...!!”
“Don't try to achieve perfection - you will never be there, strive for excellence instead.”
“Sometimes you have to take a step back in order to get a running start forward.”
“What motivates me? I've been to a place where I never intend on returning.”
“If you reject yourself, how can you start to let others accept you.”
“For my many talents, many faults accompany.”
“Putting yourself in others shoes, is how you will start to understand.”
“Your thoughts are like broken stars, it appears for short period of time. So note them and share with the intellectuals who cut and polish them like diamonds.”
“The mediocre teacher tells. The good teacher explains. The superior teacher demonstrates. The great teacher inspires.”
““People do not attract that which they want but that which they are. Change what you are to what you admire and you will become the person you were always aspired to be.””
“Sheding tear doesnt mean your weak it means you have a heart and know how to show it.”
“““People do not attract that which they want but that which they are. Change what you are to what you admire and you will become the person you always aspired to be.”””
“It is said that nothing beats the love of a good woman; unless it is the love of GOD.”
“Just because someone lives in church for most of the week doesn't make them a Saint and knowing every scripture in the Bible by heart doesn't make you a prophet. There is a special place in hell for anyone that uses God and Church in the wrong way to further their agenda.”
“The most important thing in life is life itself.”
“What we do is what we are.”
“Fear! is the biggest disability of all. It will paralyze you more than you being in a wheelchair.”
“The answer to whether or not today will deliver lies within you.”
“Creating a Change, Making a Difference, Living an Expierence”
“A life of great struggle gathers great meaning!”
“Without passion there is never a genius made, without enough curiosity and madness there is no success defined!”
“Do not fear failures, you cannot conquer if you do not collapse early!”
“When you really want something, you would always know how NOT TO QUIT!”
“JOURNEY OF LIFE IS A MIXTURE OF FAILURES AND SUCCESSES. ACCEPT BOTH WITH OPEN HEART.”
“They don't find any reason to hate me, as the same no reason to love me, but getting posted because i'm there...”
“You never fail; you just get to know the reasons why it didn’t work”
“Don’t settle at mediocrity, be an exception, achieve MASSIVE SUCCESS!”
“There is never a good reason to give up on what you DREAM OF!”
“Your fear is never stronger than your DESIRE”
“Feel responsible towards your own situations; go through rough times to celebrate SPRING!”
“If you do not want to, nothing can make you feel INFERIOR”
“Walk away from anywhere you are not celebrated, go where you are a celebration each day!”
“A good thought is something that makes a person feel great before others whenever he speaks to them no matter whoever quoted it.”
“A good quote is like a handle of the bicycle which has the power to take you onto the beautiful path of life.”
“A fine quotation has really no meaning only when one reads without getting any inspiration from it.”
“A fine quotation has really no meaning only when one reads without getting any inspiration from it.”
“Hope doesn't make the trust but trust makes hope.”
“A great quote remains great when we not only read it but also apply it to our daily life.”
“It is really no use of getting closer to someone now and then who doesn’t love and care about you.”
“In the game of life, we don’t know all the rules but still we are playing where God is umpiring.”
“When you kneel and press your head to the earth you are absorbing the love of the mother and releasing all else.”
“To stray is to strive.”
“If you are worried about money, it simply means that you can and should be
earning more. How are you doing to do it?”
“Mind your heart as your mind tends to justify.”
“Always bear in mind, that your own resolution to succeed is more important than
any other thing.”
“Just one thing you have to do to God is prayer and he will decide whether it is steering wheel or your spare tire.”
“Just because you find a thought somewhere with somebody’s name written after it doesn't mean they really said it.”
“I fell in love and got broken, for it is said that everything that falls gets broken.”
“At this time of the year - I know it doesn't sound very inspirational - but mostly rest. We played 27 games and guys are hurt. It's mostly just licking your wounds and deciding whether you're going to mail it in or go compete.”
“If you are good at playing cards then you know how and when to discard your opponent.”
“Down by 20, we could have given up. This gives us some inspiration. It showed that we can always come back.”
“Without Jesus you will not have peace, you will just have pieces.”
“By raising full year earnings guidance ahead of second quarter results, Wyeth once again inspired confidence that near-term performance expectations remain reasonable.”
“When life knocks you down take it as an opportunity to show your kids, "This is how you get up after a fall."”
“Good people with pure hearts will always face unnecessary obstruction from spitefully plagued individuals.”
“Even if it is a Miners echo...it will last forever!”
“Bill's been very poised, and he's handled the year well. When he has needed to be inspirational he has been. When he's needed to be tough, he has been. It's one of those things where he's done all the right things. He's made all the right moves. I've got a lot of confidence in this guy.”
“I don’t ever educate people by teaching English, I just make them realize what really is it? and nothing else.”
“If you are tired of starting over, then stop giving up.”
“Those who can’t stand perpendicular shouldn’t be angry with those who are on the horizontal position.”
“FAMILY - Friends Always Managing to Inspire & Love You!”
“Allow yourself to try. Let your goals be a breath of fresh air.”
“When you kneel and press your head to the earth, you are summoning the power to release all but love.”
“If you really were entitled to what you thought you were, you'd have it by now.”
“Whenever you are confronted with an opponent. Conquer him with love.”
“Karma is just cause and effect, where the connection between the two is distant enough to either forget or lie about.”
“A pseudo-adult professes to know how life should be. A real adult recognizes how life is.”
“Bad conduct is not due to what we don't know. It's fueled by what we don't want to know.”
“By being who I wasn't, I wasn't letting others be who they were.”
“When receiving personal advice, most people want to tell me what they would do in a given situation. In contrast, my closest friends tell me what I would do.”
“Choose inspiration over implication, and don't mistake compulsion and dysfunction for the former.”
“I believe God created chocolate to make up for asparagus, and hot fudge to cancel out beets. This gives me hope for all else in life.”
“You will know what to live for when you determine what you're willing to die for.”
“When someone consistently fails, it's because they're mistaking rationalization for instinct.”
“I write so that I can transcend words and replace them little by little with heart.”
“It's easy to misread someone's behavior if you think their actions are driven by the same motivations as yours.”
“Those who bring sunshine to the lives of others cannot keep it from themselves.”
“Make no agreement before its time. For instance, I don't need to tell you what I'm having for dinner a week from now.”
“Rise and shine? I do not think so. Rise, grind, and THEN shine is how you get the morning started!”
“Most people have demands for how they need to be seen by others. But, someone's view of us does not define who we are; it merely reveals who we are to them. That distinction and information are quite useful.”
“I think knowing what you cannot do is more important than knowing what you can do. In fact, that's good taste.”
“Our greatest blessing is the fortune of good friends, being loved, and loving others.”
“When someone complains about not being loved for who they are, by "who they are" they usually mean "who they wish we were".”
“Four things a woman must do: Love her God, trust her God, deny her flesh, and lay the world to rest.”
“Life is a work of art--if you don't like what you see, paint over it.”
“There is only enough time in this world for me to be me. I don't have time to be anyone else." H,L,S,.”
“In life, all good things come hard, but wisdom is the hardest to come by.”
“Never give anyone your time to make you feel sad or hatred for them. Just be happy and enjoy your life.”
“The ultimate winner is the one who withstand all the trials and hardships which keep “Bouncing Back” and still stands strong to stay in the game… - Cocoy McCoy -”
“Just because anyone can pilot a ship in the sea doesn’t always mean that they also know how to swim in it.”
“Life is just like a running train without driver, we can’t jump out of it to find the platform of our choice.”
“Once you are walking in purpose doing what you're supposed to, everything falls into place.”
“Your children have the power to teach you about yourself! You can either embrace it or push back. Your choice determines their future & yours.”
“When you live with the belief that God has your back, you look at each day differently.”
“Your own expectations based on someone else's ideal creates a pressure that holds you back. Make your own ideal.”
“Memories are made from moments not money. Spend less money & have more moments. The value is in the memories.”
“If most of our time is spent giving, loving and caring, life will be more fulfilling than we realize. All the pieces will fall into place.”
“Good timing is great by chance but GOD timing is perfect EVERY TIME.”
“I close my eyes, taking the world in;
the smell, the air, the sun, the sounds.
I take a deep breath, open my eyes...
they are more open then they’ve
ever been... and in an instant, without hesitation,
I take the shot.
The beautiful sound of the shutter be stills my heart.
And right in that moment, if only for a second, I have stopped
time. I have paused life. I have captured a moment forever to
be remembered by me, by someone.
I have created Art.
a photograph.
time.”
“Just stand still beside me and watch people, you can observe a lot instead of talking to them.”
“Taking revenge from someone may be easier for you, but it is really harder to live afterwards.”
“The world could be a lot better if people correct their own mistakes rather than criticizing others’.”
“You can’t see the way unless you start walking.”
“Don’t spend your life just crawling. Recognize the wings God has gifted you and learn to fly.”
“One of the things I learned the hard way was that it doesn't pay to get
discouraged. Keeping busy and making optimism a way of life can restore your
faith in yourself.”
“"Pursue your dreams when your why is strong enough. The how doesn't matter. FIND YOUR WHY."
--a letter written to my daughter from my son Aaron Crandall just one month before he died in a car accident.”
“We cannot choose our fate, it is our destiny that our fate will choose us”
“Desire is the wind in your sails more than it is your destination, so keep your sails wide open, and be amazed.”
“Time is like cancer without treatment which is eating us away day by day.”
“The key to success is not to find and ask those people who have locks.”
“Never scold or beat a child until he starts asking you questions whose answers you are unable to give.”
“To become rich in no time is very easy. The only thing you have to do is to look at those who are poorer than you.”
“Striving for excellence motivates you; striving for perfection is demoralizing”
“Passion may not always bring happiness, but there is no happiness without Passion. Lalit Bhojwani #Quote”
“I don’t want you any money in your pocket but a true soul in your heart.”
“When you feel the weight of the world on your shoulders, don't let it bring you down.”
“I would rather regret the things that I have done than the things that I have not”
“Dissappointment simply means today's opportunity is too small for you,a bigger one is coming your way.”
“When jilted don't commit suicide,but rather say "this person was below my status,for a more beffiting person is coming my way.”
““One of the hardest decisions you'll ever face in life is choosing whether to walk away or try harder.””
“Winter will pass you’re certain, then why doubt spring?”
“Never love the person who can’t protect you.”
“Giving advice to others is not really as helpful as if you yourself act upon that.”
“No one can tell more about you if you close your eyes.”
“There's magic in our desires that summons faith to ride along for the trip.”
“We can be born in slavery but it takes a real man to discover something special from his slavery and use it to get out of his misery to reach his dreams.”
“If you fail don't blame it on slavery; this is a new day, nobody is keeping you away from success! --- Mordecai Uka Dike””
“The time of slavery is over; let’s stop bringing back the pain and bitterness of the past! It is time to learn new things and walk in love! --- Mordecai Uka Dike””
“If trust a reminiscence of joy, remember faith dries tears.”
“To be without discipline is like driving a car without brake.”
“Our attitude towards life are true reflections of our parental values .”
“Never explain yourself. Your friends don’t need it and your enemies won’t believe it”
“We see the world as it is; God sees the world, as what it could be.”
“If dogs could start talking to man, I don’t think God would send them on earth.”
“No one should ever think of catching an eagle merely by standing at the top of mountain.”
“One must work really hard to reach the top, especially the one who is at the bottom.”
“Faith flies high on the wings of desire.”
“Many people worry about more things what most people don’t care at all.”
“Define yourself. Never give anyone any chance to define you by their definitions.”
“A person can be used as a tool only if he doesn’t know for what he is being taken.”
“The giver knows God, the forgiver loves God.”
“Don’t be an example in someone else’s theory, write yours using your own examples.”
“To forgive someone will definitely help you for not being hurt yourself anymore.”
“God gave you life not for how you define him but he wants to see that how you can define yourself.”
“A mirror can do something better for you which maybe your best friend can’t. Cry and it will cry with you, laugh and it will laugh with you, feel alone and it will be with you.”
“Once somebody was nobody for you, but now he/she is everything to you and now you can do anything for him/her without worrying about anyone.”
“Just because we know more about people, that’s why they don’t dare to change themselves.”
“I asked God to lead me to right while I follow. I had no idea that he would lead me to right through writing.”
“I'm like sugar, the more you take of me the sweeter you become.”
“There is still a light of hope when life is at worst condition. It cannot get any worse.”
“It is defeat which makes victory meaningful”
“The Only Thing That Can Heal You Is You Yourself!,
You Are The Sculpture Of Your Own Statue!
Just Mend Yourself The Way You Want To See The World Mended!
And Have Faith In Yourself!”
“To see with your heart, what your mind contradicts, that logic denies and yet to pursue in hope is faith.”
“With Good HOPE, True DESIRES, Pure INTENTIONS To Do Welfare Of You And People, No One Can Stop You From Achieving Your Goals, Because It's Rather Impossible To Stop The Godspeed!!”
“If You See Via My Eyes!!
You'll See That The Life Is A Kaleidoscope!!
The People With Just A Little Shake Often Tend To Change Their Colors!
But With A Greater Jerk!!,
We All Get Designed Into One Single Beautiful Pattern! - Well!!..,
That's Unity For Me!!:)”
“They say they don't know about it,
I say its worth a shot.”
“A person who has the abillty to think can never be bored”
“Sometimes our rainbows only come when we make it rain”
“Are you a person with strong beliefs? The strength of what we believe is measured by how much we are willing to suffer for those beliefs. "For to me, to live is Christ, and to die is gain ... For to you it has been granted on behalf of Christ, not only to believe in Him, but also to suffer for His sake." (Philippians 1:21, 29)”
“The Marching Towards The End!! Starts At The Beginning!!”
“There's eyes that keeps looking for something and a mouth that you can't trust upon. Where brain keeps planning to put up a moment, sometimes it happens but sometimes it keeps going on!”
“Chase your dreams but always know the road that will lead you home again”
“Chase your dreams but always know the road that will lead you home again”
“Some people look at others and say that those people are scum or worse. But I disagree. Mankind is a race that has intellegence like no other, but the problem is, they don't know how to actually use that intellegence. We need to stand up for the little guy and help him. We need to not insult and not judge what we don't know. We need to become better than we are. Revenge is an endless cycle, love will prevail, torture is our own undoing, and fire is our curse. All these things are up to us.”
“Life Is So Damn Unpredictable-
One Moment You Think All Your Dreams Are Coming True!
&
The Very Next Moment You Find That You Were Actually Dreaming..!!
Sadly True!”
“The only thief that can steal and kill your life is the one in your mouth.”
“The people who live everywhere are the same as those who live nowhere.”
“Children are like the rain, we shouldn’t be angry with them because they just don’t know how to fall upwards.”
“Life joys are not what is inevitable; they are what's possible.”
“Once I'm a success, all this depressing shit will just be a little footnote in the massive blog of how rich and fucked up I eventually became.”
“The more you explain it, the more I don't understand it”
“Photography gives me the freedom to be myself.”
“It is the individual who is not interested in his fellow men who has the greatest difficulties in life and provides the greatest injury to others. It is from among such individuals that all human failures spring.”
“If you try, you may fail others, but if you don’t, you fail yourself.”
“If I behold the beauty of God, I then perceive all that is beauty within me, and around me. If I deny Gods beauty, I then destroy all that is beauty in me, and around me."”
“A man that cherishes his woman more then if she were a jewel of incomparable beauty is worth more then Gold himself..as THIS is the man of dreams..
Addie L.”
“It is what we think we know already that often prevents us from learning.”
“Trust is earned, respect is given, and loyalty is demonstrated. Betrayal of any one of those is to lose all three”
“Remember when we travel down life's road, the rocks we stumble on will remind us it was worth the journey”
“In life, opposition is inevitable; determination without passion is pointless. – Kendrick Backmon”
“Life is hard and it can be made easier only by working hard.”
“The roar of an angry crowd is much louder than that of a lion.”
“I am a writer. Books are my home and words are my friends.”
“They really don’t care about your answers if they ask you wrong questions.”
“Giving something without promising is better than promising something before giving.”
“Fight to make right the wrong that laid plight.”
“Passion is one of the very elixirs of life. One without passion is already dead whilst alive. Whatever your passion may be for, give it a breath of life and fuel its creativity. Life is for the living…so live it.”
“Instead of pointing negativity on others; we should always raise positivity within ourselves.”
“Being alone by oneself is much better than being alone with another.”
“Just because you are living and breathing doesn’t mean you are alive.”
“Being Pro not about playin' everyday, but watch and learn.”
“We always learn more from those whom we hate than those whom we love.”
“The least is the worst enemy of the most.”
“Hating people is like throwing stones at the tree which can’t give you any fruit.”
“Anytime is a good time to say I love you.”
“Surround yourself with people who only encourage the best in you. Likewise, be the person who only encourages the best in others.”
“The time will come soon when you learn to fly after jumping and falling from the sky again and again.”
“If there were no God, the Government wouldn’t take too much time to take the position.”
“Love is contagious; contaminate each other.”
“You cannot choose what you are born into but you can change what you become.”
“Learning to open the taps of your imagination leads to abundance & success unlimited.”
“Disappointment in life is good because,it makes you to understand life better & it also makes you to become a better you.”
“Everything is so boring, just like "human beings"!”
“Once you are alive there is a probability that you may make it,but once you are dead there is zero probability that you will make it.”
“Life's irony;The wise look for problems because,they know problems brings opportunities,but the foolish run away from problems & miss opportunities.”
“The moment you believe you can also build a Fortune 500 company,it shows you also have the valiant spirit residing inside of you.”
“The solution to life's illnesses whose cure has not yet been found & all the inventions that can help make life stress free lies within our imagination.”
“Any time we realise our dreams have not yet materialise,then we need to go back to work.”
“No time is more condusive than now to do the things you greatly desire.”
“There are only two ways to live a life, wait for a miracle or become one.”
“When Misery calls; you answer with screams of poor me, oh me. All to forget that you made the choice to answer misery questions.”
“Men used to want to be both rich and great, now most only want to be rich and men that only pursue wealth will always eventually be defeated by men that are not afraid to also be great.”
“It's all about having a passion for something, and I am a passionate Jack of All Trades.”
“Men used to want to be both rich and great, now most only want to be rich and men that only pursue wealth will always eventually be defeated by men that are not afraid to also be great.”
“Life is what ever you want it to be but experience is a worthy lesson”
“We are who we are no matter the situation...life can only break you if you let it”
“The Constitution only guarantees the American people the right to pursue happiness. You have to catch it yourself.”
“If you think of failure in your mind, you are one step farther away from success.”
“If you say your God is bigger than mine, than you just show your religion in the name of God.”
“God doesn’t go to bed because he has to wake us up every day and we are the ones who forget to thank him every morning.”
“Humor is mankind's greatest blessing.”
“Dance with the Devil and he may make you the king of Hell.”
“I thought a thought which I never thought that it would be thought by me.”
“God whispers to us in our pleasures, speaks to us in our conscience, but shouts in our pains: It is His megaphone to rouse a deaf world”
“Laugh at yourself and at life. Not in the spirit of derision or whining selfpity,
but as a remedy, a miracle drug, that will ease your pain, cure your depression,
and help you to put in perspective that seemingly terrible defeat and worry with
laughter at your predicaments, thus freeing your mind to think clearly toward the
solution that is certain to come.”
“Learn from flies, always eager to risk their life for a piece of food, ready to dare not one but endless times, they certainly intuit that a one-month life-expectancy is nothing and requires to be lived fully”
“A trivial generosity of a stranger, perhaps it will let you thank forever.”
“I endure with gallantry”
“There can be no leader without a follower”
“No one who, like me, conjures up the most evil of those half-tamed demons that inhabit the human beast, and seeks to wrestle with them, can expect to come through the struggle unscathed.”
“If you're worth it he'll fight for you because he is worth it.”
“Today will always run faster than yesterday in search of tomorrow.”
“We are all only God’s joke here having the same punch line.”
“The reason why most people don’t reach their destination is that they are so afraid to fall that they open their parachute before they jump from the sky.”
“For me, the person whose thoughts are still spoken is never dead.”
“If you want success in life, then just learn how to walk like a turtle instead of flying.”
“At the dawn of the twenty-first century, man would bear witness to such an atrocious act. That it would one day fuel the hearts
of many; inspiring them to seek out justice, on the behalf of those, who fell that horrific day. That day has finally arrived;
welcome gentlemen, to your judgment day.”
“Everyone wants to be best, but I just want to be better than those.”
“You rarely frighten a woman who sees everyone as a cockroach.”
“A person’s real attitude can be seen when he is in danger.”
“Every declaration we make is like a seed planted,whose harvest we can't possibly foretell.”
“Putting wings on your body can’t make you an eagle.”
“A person without smile is like a tree without leaves.”
“You need to throw a little shit on the flower before it can grow.”
“life aint perfect but its beautiful -”
“There is a fine line between aging gracefully and dying young, choose your friends and lifestyle wisely.”
“In the Picture of Life, there's no Re-take ; Be the One You Want To Be.”
“Once you let others decide your self esteem, you will have none.”
“Give something to your child if you think he must give it later to those when they need it badly.”
“Just because a thing is funny doesn’t mean it doesn’t have a mystery.”
“You may laugh at people for what they do, but never laugh at what they are.”
“Your attitude is a multitude of aptitude and rectitude which decides your altitude in plenitude.”
“Don’t ever try to fight with those who have either nothing or everything.”
“One of the keys to be happy is to always get in touch with oneself.”
“Be like a dog, love like a God, work like a slave and eat like a pauper.”
“Death is nothing but the body of a dead who has just died.”
“In my opinion, you are a fool and in yours, I am too.”
“This is the beginning of the rest of our lives,
you can run from it, or embrace it.
We are at the starting line and the guns about to go.”
“The snow flurries in the sky like the thoughts in my head, raining beauty and sticking to the mind like a bad thought”
“I take a look out my window the snow is white and covers the ground like a thick beautiful blanket the sun peeking through the clouds, the flakes slowly falling showing me a sign that there can be happy endings.”
“You can learn new things at any time in your life if you're willing to be a beginner. If you actually learn to like being a beginner, the whole world opens up to you.”
“This is your road. Some people may walk it with you, but no one will walk it for you.”
“Learning from another person's mistakes is wisdom,but learning from your own mistakes is wisdom plus experience.”
“Nobody really knows how his life may end,but we only believe that if we continually think positively,it will definitely end on a positive note.”
“Think of it without a shadow of a doubt, that you can soar passed the highest mountains. Accomplishing everything that you desire. The true owner, of their very own destiny; so take flight and never look back, because the future, belongs to you.”
“Some people need a glimpse of the end before they can figure out where to begin.”
“Your life today is a pathway to a tomorrow shrouded in mystery and hope”
“Fall down seven times stand up eight. - Could anyone show me how?”
“I don’t believe that somebody’s first impression is their last impression, for it may change after sometime.”
“The study of great quotations is worth more than a college education.”
“Think of it without a shadow of a doubt, that you can soar passed the highest mountains. Accomplishing everything that you desire. The true owner, of their very own destiny; so take flight and never look back, because the future, belongs to you.”
“You will soon get run over if you stay in the middle of the road too long.”
“With fire in our eyes, we took to the skies. The World was ours, for one last and glorious night.”
“If you can’t forgive yourself, I am sure you can’t forgive anyone else.”
“Strangers are friends whom we yet to meet and our foes are nobody but strangers.”
“Science will always give answer to the first question but refuses to the last one.”
“The only success you can achieve in your life is to live well.”
“God has never shown mercy on the poor.”
“The bad news is time flies like an arrow and the good news is the bow is in your hands.”
“Give me some good advice and I promise you that I will not follow it.”
“You can’t understand hard things merely by doing hard work.”
“Three things must be carefully governed by you; time, money and yourself.”
“Solitude is the only thing that will never help you make your character.”
“If you want to know the secret to success, ask those who have not succeeded in their lives.”
“If you don’t fail to try, you can’t fail to win.”
“Ignorance always makes people create an argument and it is impossible to defeat an ignorant man in it.”
“Millions saw an apple falling but only Newton asked why; because the apple didn’t fall onto his head but into his mind.”
“Even if you were to beat a fly a thousand times, it will never give you honey.”
“I'm just a big kid with a dream.”
“A enemy will assault you, but a true friend will re-position themselves all in order to protect you.”
“I'm not playing with you Devil. Re-position your self to the nearest exit.”
“Architecture is a survival element for humanity. The practice of
Architecture is what gives me a home... a home far from home.”
“With fire in our eyes, we took to the skies. The World was ours, for one last and glorious night.”
“Just the way a dog chases you if you run from her,so also do your problems,they simply multiply & chase you if you run from them.”
“It is normal to face temptations in life,while the great mind says,how can i overcome this temptation,the mediocre mind says,how can i undercome it.”
“In life once we can take care of the important things like;how to feed & pay our bills,it is then that our greatness will begin to really manifest for all to see.”
“Longrange
planning does not deal with future decisions, but with the future of
present decisions.”
“When 2 people agree…why do I need the one?”
“If at first you don't achieve, it only gets classified as a failure the moment you give up.”
“You should do away with assumptions. For you do not know all of someone else's story.”
“Learn with me, stay with me. This can be, our own perfect world.”
“Let your soul soar to the music of your heart...”
“Associate yourself with weakness, and you will pay the price with dignified ridicule”
“There is a big difference between having a short temper and having a low tolerance for lunacy. I've come to realise i thrive with the latter.”
“Learn with me, stay with me. This can be, our own perfect world.”
“Two days from now, tomorrow, will be yesterday, you saw the future coming and now its history”
“Some see with their eyes, some don't”
“Glad I remembered I forgot, instead of forgetting to remember”
“ Only an intelligent person,knows when to act stupid”
“I prayed and asked God to remove the Jack out of my box, and not only did he remove the Jack, but he gave the Jack his own box.”
“If you learn you can teach; if you teach you will learn.”
“Never put off anything until tomorrow except anger and jealousy.”
“Do the right thing. It will gratify some people and astonish the rest.”
“Never give advice even if it is asked.”
“The road to success is there is no secret road to success.”
“I always advise people not to act upon the advice that I give them.”
“Our life is like a tree which is pruning itself.”
“Follow your heart, the money follows", follow money, the heart hollows”
“I've witness the atrocity of my own crazy without God. Therefore when folk say I'm crazy, I'm sadden for them. Surely that same crazy is preventing them from knowing God.”
“The real blindness is when you can't see with the eyes of your heart! - (Mordecai Uka Dike)”
“Don’t speak for your vision, let the materialization of vision speak for you! (Mordecai Uka Dike)”
“A person with a great vision,plan,wisdom and knowledge doesn't boast,that’s why such person can surprise everyone! --(Mordecai Uka Dike)”
“The most complicated questions normally have the simplest answers.”
“Every time i prayed, i used to ask God to open doors for me. He never did. But all he did was give me a master key to multitudes of doors.”
“Let us all strive no matter how small to engrave our spirits in the hearts of men,for doing so will make us immortal in the hearts of men.”
“People are like plants; you must feed them, nurture them, and pour into them if truly desire for them to grow.”
“I was once a fugitive to sin. I ran from one sin, to the next sin.”
“Se nos ligarmos a Deus, a fonte da paz, da luz e da verdade, Seu Espírito fluirá por nosso intermédio como por um conduto, de modo a refrigerar e beneficiar a todos ao redor de nós. (A.V. 2.5)”
“Three plus three equals six, two plus two equals four, but there could be no greater joy; than if you and I, could equal one.”
“Cristo queria elevar e refinar a mente humana, purificando-a de toda escória, de modo a poder o homem apreciar o amor que não tem paralelo. General Conference Bulletin, 1899. {CD 3.2}”
““Deus é amor” (1 João 4:8), está escrito sobre cada botão que desabrocha, sobre cada haste de erva que brota. Os amáveis passarinhos, a encher de música o ar, com seus alegres trinos; as flores de delicados matizes, em sua perfeição, impregnando os ares de perfume; as altaneiras árvores da floresta, com sua luxuriante ramagem de um verde vivo — todos testificam da terna e paternal solicitude de nosso Deus, e de Seu desejo de tornar felizes os Seus filhos. {CC 10.1}”
““O rei em seu trono não tem função mais elevada que a mãe.” Lar Adventista, Pag. 231”
“O andar de Enoque com Deus não foi em arrebatamento de sentidos ou visão, mas em todos os deveres da vida diária. Não se tornou um eremita, excluindo-se inteiramente do mundo; pois tinha uma obra a fazer para Deus no mundo. Na família e em suas relações com os homens, como esposo e como pai, como amigo, cidadão, foi ele um servo do Senhor, constante, inabalável. {PP 50.1}”
“A maior necessidade do mundo é a de homens — homens que se não comprem nem se vendam; homens que no íntimo da alma sejam verdadeiros e honestos; homens que não temam chamar o pecado pelo seu nome exato; homens, cuja consciência seja tão fiel ao dever como a bússola o é ao pólo; homens que permaneçam firmes pelo que é reto, ainda que caiam os céus. — Educação, 56, 57. {BS 300.3}”
“Don’t dig your own grave with your tongue.”
“Don’t worry about making mistakes, they are just opportunities.”
“Don’t quarrel with a person whose voice is louder than yours.”
“Before marrying a woman make sure that you can support her.”
“No matter if you walk like a turtle until you don’t stop.”
“Never pluck flowers if you love them, for a thorn loves them more than you do.”
“Both mother and God are verb, not noun.”
“A quotation in the right place at the right time is like water in a desert.”
“If you want to know where God lives, go to desert searching for a well.”
“Judging people by appearances is like judging yourself by your own shadow.”
“Opportunities are grabbed with both hands & a positive mind.”
“It is the thoughts that matter.”
“Don’t praise a man by his dog.”
“The earth revolves around money.”
“If you have a dog and you love him too much, then some day you will have to bark yourself.”
“He who knows quotations can overcome any type of difficulty in life.”
“Worry is like shadow, the more you think about it the more it spreads.”
“The more time you spend loving on yourself, the less time you'll have to love on others.”
“Three plus three equals six, two plus two equals four, but there could be no greater joy; than if you and I, could equal one.”
“For i can do all things as long as i can submit my request to my subconscious being via my imagination.”
“The worst part about growing old is that someday it stops.”
“I am not the boy that I was before but I will be the man I am not now.”
“I like to travel on the road where quotations are its signposts.”
“We were sent as God’s messenger on earth, but unfortunately we have forgotten the message.”
“A man’s present can sometimes be judged by his past.”
“Life is the trump card of love and love is the wild card of reality.”
“To succeed in life, you need two things: ignorance and confidence.”
“There is absolutely nothing worse than real failure if you give up too soon.”
“I am who I am destined to be. I am me.”
“Whenever we think we are good, we can be even better.”
“Whenever we think we are good, we can be even better.”
“To be better than yesterday, you need to overcome your fears.”
“To be better than yesterday, you need to overcome your fears.”
“If you want a man to learn, teach him; but if you want a man to follow, teach by example.”
“It was on my fifth birthday that Papa put his hand on my shoulder and said, 'Remember, my son, if you ever need a helping hand, you'll find one at the end of your arm.'”
“Life is a process of learning and you are always learning Whether You Like It or Not. Lalit Bhojwani”
“Great nations of the past! Very little for us have you left to do; all boundaries you conquered, all knowledge you obtained. Yet there remains one mountain unclimbed, one mystery unsolved; the greed of man, the lust of man.”
“It is our dreams that propel us into the skies, and bring about the winds upon which we may ride to the golden gates of achievement.”
“When you have a number of disagreeable duties to perform, always do the most disagreeable first”
“In the dictionary of the Devil, the word God is always missing.”
“If we could predict the future, we would sit beside the God.”
“If practice makes a man perfect then what perfect practice makes a man?”
“What Rev Run represents is a special reality. We need inspiration, and his reality is an inspiration. If you're a father, and you see him raise his family, you'll learn how to raise your family.”
“He who doesn’t know what life is knows nothing.”
“He who knows that he doesn't know, knows what he needs to know.”
“Don’t judge me if you don’t know even a little about me.”
“To inspire those who lack inspiration, is the greatest gift that I can give to my fellow man. More than money, more than love, more than the stars in the sky; that rule my world.”
“In life for you to be able to implement a unique idea,you must think uniquely.”
“Leaving your Business for Pleasure is Bullshit. Sow in Tears and reap in Joy. Sacrifice. Maturity, Determination, Optimum Planning and Consistency are the Watchwords.”
“My grandmother once told me: "Never be in debt to anyone or anything. Try to live within your means." This is why I've never been financially extravagant- I still go to real Canadian Superstore, Value Village, Costco. I'm always conscious of living within or sometimes below my means”
“Marriage is not a competition. The fact that your mates or friends are getting married or making babies does not mean you should rush into it. YOU ARE NOT LAGGING BEHIND. GOD KNOWS BEST. The most surprising thing is that you could give birth 10(ten) years after your friend(s) gave birth and your child will grow up to be a very responsible person than your your friend's(s') child(ren). It's not who gets married or gives birth first, it's who God blesses first. It all depends on the foundation.”
“You don't deliberately drive on the road to hell hoping to get to heaven. Life is indeed a journey not a game. Caution!!”
“He who wants to throw dust to the rising wind should be prepared to receive it back.”
“I'm an extrovert; I say things the way they are, I speak my mind, I make my points freely. That's my source of progress. Life goes on.”
“It takes faith to hopelessly pursue hope.”
“People don't see tattoo in good light. They mostly see it as a mark of irresponsibility.”
“Keep in Mind that Tough Times Don't Last.”
“Some young women nowadays flirt with politicians and go to the extent of sleeping with them for jobs, positions, money and fame. Sooner or later the cat will be let out of the bag. If this is the right route to success, then everybody will be successful in the twinkling of an eye. Life is not a rush. You wait unto God and he'll give you your heart desire.”
“To inspire those who lack inspiration, is the greatest gift that I can give to my fellow man. More than money, more than love, more than the stars in the sky; that rule my world.”
“The most Important Thing in Life is Concentration.”
“Few people pay much attention to outfit and style instead of human quality and intellects.”
“For a marriage to succeed, God has to approve of it. Love is not enough to pull u through when the paths become rough. Money is not enough if love does not exist. A little bit of love to aid forgiveness, some money for when the going gets tough and of course God; these are the right ingredients for marriage. There are more things to be considered. God should open our eyes to know when the right person comes by. Pray ceaselessly in and out of season for God's choice of a LIFE partner.”
“To inspire those who lack inspiration, is the greatest gift that I can give to my fellow man. More than money, more than love, more than the stars in the sky; that rule my world.”
“It is injurious to be more serious but
it is destroying to be irresponsible”
““When wise men plan for life they equally plan for death. But when fools plan for life they don't remember that death will come. And that singular reason makes them fools.””
“Yesterday is history we write today to repeat it tomorrow.”
“Knowledge comes when you think, so think more and you will learn more.”
“He who is honest rarely trusts anybody but who is not, trusts everybody.”
“Everything has its shadow if you bring it in the light.”
“Life is a garden, don’t water the weeds.”
“Jean-Michel Basquiat's art, moved our generation in the Samo way, Martin Luther King moved the World; by occupying all of man's, body and mind.”
“The problem of life can be solved only by living.”
“A man having no ambition in life is a ship having no rudder in the sea.”
“It's not about what you don't know. It's about what you do know but don't want to admit.”
“Pain is the price you pay for resisting life.”
“A miracle occurs when you choose love over everything else.”
“The moment is where the heart comes alive.”
“Too much judging leaves no time for loving.”
“Jean-Michel Basquiat's art, moved our generation in the Samo way, Martin Luther King moved the World; by occupying all of man's, body and mind.”
“Dreams are not predetermined, you create them. Much like your destiny is not followed, you mould it.”
“Don’t strike the iron while it is hot, but keep striking it until it is hot.”
“My philosophy is: there is no use of trying to be kind to those who are always rude to you.”
“When lying and omission become part of your character, you lose integrity and the trust you once had from others.”
“No matter where you go searching for something, you will come back and find it at home.”
“In order to understand others, you must understand yourself first.”
“Practice never makes anyone perfect, it only increases their improvement.”
“An alarm clock is a proof that man has to get up early and work hard.”
“Don't train to be the reason you DON'T lose, train to be the reason you DO win.”
“Today is the future of yesterday & tomorrow will be the future of today.”
“Never give up on life,for giving up only shows that life has defeated you.”
“Work equals success,but thinking is the tonic that makes the working that brings success to be fun.”
“One thing I have realized in life is that if a responsible person is looking out for you, you hardly become responsible for your own problems because you think that person will always fix things for you and solve your problems for you. You become overly dependent on that person.”
“Life, a game; you, a player; earth, a playground; money, your score; God, umpire; death, out of game.”
“You can do anything in this world if you are ready to face the consequences.”
“When I was a boy of 14, my father was so ignorant I could hardly stand to have the old man around. But when I got to be 21, I was astonished at how much the old man had learned in seven years.”
“It is easy to pick out the best people. They will help you to do it.”
“Omission should only be used out of humility and never out of embarrassment.”
“Give yourself to God. He can do more with it than you can.”
“Faith is not one finding God, rather embracing him.”
“A smile that lights the face will also warm the heart.”
“The greatest gift one person can give their children is love.”
“Home is where you live your life and build your memories.”
“None of us feels the true love of God till we realize how wicked we are. But you can't teach people that -- they have to learn by experience.”
“Time spent in minding other people’s business is about the greatest waste of time there is.”
“Don’t be afraid of criticism; criticise yourself often.”
“Mistakes will happen, but must you give them so much help?”
“Some people get up and go; others just get up and goof.”
“There are times when you have to change your tune to keep harmony.”
“Most of us would get along well if we used the advice we give others.”
“There would be more incentive to success if successful men seemed to enjoy life more.”
“Mind your own business or you will undermine your own business.”
“If you complain about the taste of food, it means you are not hungry.”
“Philosophy makes the shy people strong and the strong people stronger.”
“There are two reasons why some people don’t mind their own business. One is that they have no mind, and the other is that they have no business.”
“Prayer is the acid test of devotion.”
“Life consists of thoughts. The better your thoughts, the more beautiful your life will be.”
“Too much of anything can’t help you make your life better or happy.”
“There are two kinds of people in the world; those who are rich and those who are happy.”
“In order to succeed you have to decide what can you do after what you do?”
“If you want to feel rich, try to sell the thing which you love more than yourself.”
“You can tell more about a person by how he spends his money and time.”
“The only rule of science is that it has no rule.”
“A man may fall many times but he won't be a failure until he says someone
pushed him.”
“Death is just a noun which takes all the parts of speech of life with it.”
“Science is the father of war and Nature is the mother of peace.”
“If you find a reason for your happiness, you will never be happy.”
“The epiphany of love is trust.”
“You would never give up if you knew how close you were, would you? So never give up because you are always too close.”
“To will with men is love, to will with God is life.”
“The simplicity of being my own woman, is that when I share my story it opens up the door for you to share your story.”
“We turn to God for help when our foundations are shaking, only to learn that it is God who is shaking them.”
“I don't know how people can fake whole relationships... I can't even fake a hello to somebody I don't like”
“I'm not trying to write your program with Satan. So don't try to rewrite my program with God.”
“Trust in God, i may lie you...”
“A strifeless man is a free man.”
“Forces will definitely work in your favour,when you constantly see yourself doing what you desire to do in your mind.”
“Rejoice in your poverty,for the depth of your poverty may also translate to your prosperity height.”
“Our action is a better prayer than our words.”
“To be normal may be the greatest tragedy of all time.”
“Caste is a weapon that is professionally used by illiterates to kill humanity and mankind in self and the world !!! ”
“The Lord would want you to be successful. He would. You are His sons and His daughters. He has the same kind of love and ambition for you that your earthly parents have. They want you to do well and you can do it.”
“Every Human being in Existence is Dependent on fellow being either directly or Indirectly and Non in Existence is Independent,this is Universal Truth.”
“If i could say one thing to the kids under 18, it would be "high school is not the end of the world". Stay strong, you can make it.”
“In every CHOICES that we choose, There's always a RISK; But always remember that there's also a chance”
“If your actions inspire others to dream more, learn more, do more and become more, you are a leader.”
“You are the greatest artist of yourself. Go ahead and create a masterpiece. Paint your own destiny.”
“A person with a big ego usually knows very little.”
“To create value and inspire others while utilizing your God given talent is the greatest gift of all.”
“Have Peace of Mind before you have a
Piece of Mind”
“I don't need someone's approval to be who I am but your compliments makes me a better person”
“ART is the only original thing left in this world, everything else has been done.”
“I don't really believe in natural intelligence. I think we are all born equal so our intelligence is acquired”
“For as long as you are still alive, you have enough time to make a difference”
“If you keep on practicing, you'll start discovering.”
“NOTHING is free, buying and achieving anything COSTS time.”
“Humans constantly build obstacles to themselves and others, Horses show Us their power, spurs, bits, wips, boxes. can not brake their migthy spirits”
“A label doesn't choose who you love, your heart does.”
“Right now I'm far from okay, but that's okay; because in the end, I know I'll be okay.”
“I like to make people laugh, because for those brief few seconds, i forget my miseries.”
“Inspiration breeds aspiration & your aspirations can only become reality through perspiration.”
““We are not perfect, neither absolute Good nor Evil. We rest somewhere in-between, but our effort should be to improve the score..””
“Three things to live constant:Give, Take, Forget.”
“You can see God from anywhere if your mind is set to love and obey Him”
“Procurava [Jesus] inspirar a esperança aos mais rudes e menos prometedores, dando-lhes a certeza de que podiam atingir caráter que lhes manifestaria a filiação divina. {RC 22.3}”
“A Bíblia não foi escrita apenas para os eruditos; pelo contrário, destina-se às pessoas comuns. As grandes verdades necessárias para a salvação são apresentadas com a clareza do sol do meio-dia; ninguém errará nem se perderá no caminho, exceto os que seguirem seus próprios julgamentos, em vez da vontade revelada de Deus. {CCn 55.5}”
“Ele [Deus] suscitará dentre o povo comum a homens e mulheres que realizem Sua obra. Em breve haverá um avivamento que surpreenderá a muitos. Os que não percebem a necessidade do que deve ser feito serão passados por alto, e os mensageiros celestiais trabalharão com os que são chamados de pessoas comuns, habilitando-as a levar a verdade para muitos lugares. — Manuscript Releases 15:312. {EF 204.2}”
“Perseverance is a great element of success. If you only knock long enough at the
gate, you are sure to wake up somebody.”
“Os meios de que dispomos talvez não pareçam suficientes para a obra mas, se avançarmos com fé, crendo no todo-suficiente poder de Deus, abundantes recursos se nos oferecerão. Se a obra é de Deus, Ele próprio proverá os meios para sua realização. Recompensará a sincera e simples confiança nEle. — Idem, 371. {BS 265.2}”
“Everything is nothing but a memory. Even what happens now has already become nothing but a figment of your imagination.”
“Enquanto não consentirmos em pecar, não há poder, diabólico ou humano, que nos possa trazer uma nódoa à alma. Um homem cujo coração está firme em Deus é, na hora de suas mais aflitivas provações e desanimadoras circunstâncias, o mesmo que era quando em prosperidade, quando sobre ele pareciam estar a luz e o favor de Deus. (...) Como Moisés, fica firme como “vendo o invisível” (Hebreus 11:27); não atentando nas “coisas que se vêem, mas nas que se não vêem”. 2 Coríntios 4:18. {MDC 32.2}”
“This CD became something of a personal journey for me. The tone of the whole CD is uplifting and inspirational. It's an upper. We have enough downers in the world.”
“Sem uma viva fé em Cristo como Salvador pessoal, é impossível fazer com que nossa influência seja sentida em um mundo cético. Não podemos dar a outros aquilo que nós mesmos não possuímos. {MDC 37.1}”
“The single most devastating problem that plagues the human race is an improper attitude leading to premature judgments and conclusions”
“People can choose to be ignorant and keep their eyes shut from the rest of the world, because if they open their eyes and see what reality really is their perfect world that they live in will come crashing down and their logic torn apart, but it can also protect them from the awful truth we call life.”
“Some of the most ignorant men i know are educated.”
“There is no better day than today,to make your dreams come to pass.”
“Success is the best way to appreciate those who cared for you,& also the best revenge against your enemies.”
“Understanding 'Why' doesn't make the particulars easier to accept and NOT liking what you hear doesn't make it untrue.”
“How to control the words you use during a quarrel with a Friend;Just remember that tomorrow you may still become friends again,then you will be ashame of the words you used during the quarrel.”
“I used to be afraid of what it would be like being the real me. I soon found out that the fear of being the real me wasn't really a fear of me. It was the power of what other folk said about me that kept me being the same ole me.”
“Adversity is a supreme teacher:
You may think you’ve learned very much in life, but without adversity, you’ve learned very little.”
“Inquisitive thinking breeds great discoveries.”
“We will all find out who we are at different times in our lives. Some will find out at 15, others at 40.”
“It's a on-going war when a hero falls, but it's a new beginning when a hero rises.”
“My depression is not mental it's environ-mental. So I moved on and changed my environment. Then I was happy.”
“A man does not have to show pride in his children by endless talk;
One can see it in his face as he watches them!”
“True heroes are your parents & best friends.”
“The moment I defend I am colored woman , is the moment that I have colored my defense.”
“YOU are the light shining the way on my road of life...
And the rhythm behind the beat of my heart.”
“If people could write as much as they write on Facebook in one day, they could write books and be published... like you know.. in old times.. before social media networking!”
“Once you release the excuses and open your mind to endless possibilities, nothing can stop you!”
“Your body is saying no but your heart is saying yes”
“I am one more repetition away from success”
“Find it in your heart to push the weight up”
“Everyday i strive to be more angelic... but the demons in me make every step of the way challenging. Self-reflection heals but it hurts too because you see how 'evil' is something so subtle... where that demonic 'suggestion' can be rationalized into a whole PSYCHOLOGY or frame of thinking. I have to monitor that or else i won't hear God...”
“Finding your true love is hard but loving him/her will be easy.”
“A bachelor must not waste time looking for a faultless woman to marry her.”
“A clear conscience yields a good night’s sleep; without fear even in the desert.”
“A devil is the one who knows what is right but will not do it.”
“A dog does not enter a home where he suffers from hunger.”
“A donkey that goes to Mecca will not come back as a pilgrim.”
“A friend who visits you when you are suffering is your best friend.”
“The reason why people talk about success and not failure is simply because they do not want to give their secret away.”
“A man one year elder to you is one cunning year elder to you.”
“Amazingly are the five fingers in one hand, working in unison to perform tasks, belonging to one arm, and one body, having varied height and positions.”
“A book of quotations is one which is filled with God’s wisdom for a happy life.”
“When you have headphones on, the world is a music video.”
“A woman will go for poverty with love rather than wealth without love.”
“It is better to pay and have little than to have much and be in debt.”
“Never interfere in a person’s decisions about what he will do with his possessions.”
“What systems do you have in place for growth?”
“A man without happiness is neither good nor well.”
“He who does good and throw it in the Nile will be rewarded by God in the desert.”
“Before eating food, always take time to thank God.”
“When a person dies, a little piece of every soul that person has touched dies as well.”
“You know whom you love, but you can’t know who loves you.”
“A hero is not the person who fights with his enemy but who turns his enemy into his friend.”
“An ignorant person is poorer than the man who has no money.”
“The only thing that is going to keep you from being popular is your need to be the center of attention.”
“Giving advice to the fool is like sowing water in the ocean.”
“Do not stir up the water if you do not know how to catch fish.”
“As long as a language lives, the war will not perish.”
“If you desire not the progress of another,then know for sure that you are nothing but a negative thinker.”
“Charity should be done from the heart not from the pocket.”
“The wedding lasts for two or three days, but the trouble stays longer.”
“Don’t spend time with people who don’t respect you.”
“Learning is not an advantage as everybody learns, but learning fast & better is the ultimate competitive advantage.”
“Explaining to an ignorant person is like knocking at the door of a deaf man.”
“Death is the bride of Life and Suicide is the brother of Death.”
“Even God cannot satisfy everyone.”
“You will make it nowhere in life if you can't act. It's a sad truth.”
“Don’t make haste because it is the invention of the devil.”
“Hang out with wise people and you will realize that there is nothing better for man than silence.”
“If a man is miser, he will certainly have a prodigal son.”
“To accomplish our destiny...we must cover before nightfall the distance assigned
to each of us.”
“There is always someone who loves you and someone who hates you.”
“Man's biggest mistake is to believe that he's working for someone else.”
“Anger in the body is like a termite in the wood.”
“Dwelling in the past blurrs the future, focusing on the future shadows the present, looking at the present embraces the past and predicts the future.”
“Anyone who says that they love you, wait and see what they do for you.”
“Don’t tell your children how to live, live and let them watch you do it.”
“Hang out with the powerful and people will kneel before you wherever you go.”
“A miser is a person who is reluctant to spend and saves for those who will bury him.”
“A person who is not ashamed will do whatever he wants.”
“First improve yourself, and then judge others.”
“He who borrows will have to pay again with shame or loss.”
“A tree that grows in the shade of another one will die small.”
“If you want to avoid weddings then attend funerals.”
“If you want to destroy your enemy, give him an elephant as a gift.”
“It is better to dance in the rain than to sit under a leaking roof.”
“Make yourself a noble man before advising others.”
“Don’t worry about having no master, for time will teach you everything.”
“The most inspiring ideas come to you when you're not worried about things.”
“Karma is the mother and karma is the father, karma is God.”
“A mile is a laughably short distance to walk in someone's shoes. Unless of course they are flip flops.”
“I am an artist in love with romance and a romantic in love with the arts.”
“The more and more I allow the breath of God to live me, word me, move me, walk me, and comfort me. The less and less I cater to me, desire me, judge me, flaunt me, control me, and follow me.”
“Nothing happens to a person lacking ambition.”
“Healthy children will not fear life if their elders have integrity enough not to fear death.”
“I'm so thankful for my life, my lungs, my cystic fibrosis; what would I be without all of this? I wouldn't be me.”
“We are all God to at least one person. Look in the mirror and tell me how you treat your worshipper.”
“He who is everywhere is nowhere except God.”
“If you don’t like dogs, you don’t like people; if you don’t love dogs, you don’t trust people.”
“By getting angry, one shows that he is wrong.”
“There are lights in the streets and shadows in the house.”
“Children who get everything they ask for seldom succeed in life.”
“He who never goes to your house doesn’t want you in his house.”
“Fear not the man who fears God, but the one who fears you.”
“Fortune is like a wall that falls on those who lean on it.”
“Do it today! Yesterday is gone and tomorrow it might be forbidden.”
“vanity does not value foresight.”
“Even if you are in paradise, it is still hell if you are all alone.”
“If we no longer converse it isn't a disrespect thing, please don't take it as that. I have just outgrown you.”
“Don’t trust the man who always keeps smiling.”
“If you wish to know what a man is, make him king.”
“If you want to make God count something, make a woman weep and He will count her tears.”
“He who explains things to an intelligent person need not tire himself out talking.”
“Don’t wait for respect, just act like an idiot and everyone will respect you.”
“The disappearance of a sense of responsibility is the most far-reaching consequence of submission to authority.”
“Do today what you want to postpone until tomorrow.”
“Life IS a game. I guess the question is....... how will you play it?”
“Make your own path. The well trodden path is not always the right path.”
“Big people wear and speak of big things.”
“Always put your trust or faith in God, because man will only disappoint you.”
“Sometimes a person you have met for 2 minutes can have a greater impact on your life than those you have known for years.”
“There can be nothing worse for a man when he realize that he married the wrong woman.”
“Don't give because you have in abundance, but give because people don't have it at all.”
“If you want to make God laugh, pray to him for wealth.”
“If 1st attempt didn't work, you have all the numbers left to keep trying to accomplish your task. Just keep trying with the idea of making it this time.”
“Everyone thinks that his own thoughts are best but finds no inspiration.”
“Sometimes we miss signs, even if they're right in front of us.... Or maybe we just don't want to see them.”
“If you are going to die, you will die in the dark even if you have candle business.”
“Most of us only know the people they want us to know.”
“For a happy marriage the husband should be the head and the wife the heart.”
“I learned that the only way you are going to get anywhere in life is to work hard at it. Whether you're a musician, a writer, an athlete or a businessman, there is no getting around it. If you do, you'll win - if you don't, you won't.”
“Harsh words are like a boll, it doesn’t stick to the wall, but it will surely leave a mark.”
“Do not run into debt with a rich man, or promise anything to a poor one.”
“Don’t make decision at night for it may be changed in the morning.”
“When a man begins to understand himself he begins to live. When he begins to
live he begins to understand his fellow men.”
“He was so poor that he couldn’t afford a funeral that’s why he is still alive.”
“[Waters' music recalls the lush, hyper-Romantic sound of opera composers like Puccini.] (He is) definitely an inspiration, ... After all, his opera 'Tosca' takes place in a police state.”
“He who tries little of everything accomplishes much of nothing.”
“If you don’t honor your wife, you also dishonor yourself.”
“If you are looking for a fly in your food it means that you are not hungry.”
“Don’t criticize or speak ill of a blind man.”
“My wife is a flower of the garden and I am her fence around it.”
“He who leaves a good name does not die poor.”
“He who wants to make his friend his enemy should lend him some money.”
“He who strikes his father or mother his hand will grow out of the grave.”
“Good looking and good luck rarely walk the same road.”
“consumer spending has not been dented by the hurricane-inspired rise in gasoline prices and fears of higher home heating oil bills.”
“God sits on high and he sees far.”
“Even when you are alone, always try to be in good company.”
“A poor man who marries a rich woman is not his wife, but a ruler.”
“I hate it when girls doubt themselves. You're beautiful, don't doubt yourself.”
“He who knows, knows. He who doesn’t know, learns.”
“He who wants everything every time will lose everything any time.”
“If you have a friend who is a doctor, then send him to your enemy’s house.”
“corruption is taken only by the corrupted.”
“He who works before dawn will soon be his own master.”
“Pride only becomes a problem when it keeps you from saying what's in your heart.”
“You can’t get money by just looking at somebody or something.”
“There's a whole world out there, and to think "You've never been?" is so sad.”
“You should be afraid of a silent dog rather than a barking one.”
“People can’t learn anything from buying but from selling.”
“Trying to make money without working is like trying to milk a cow with your hands in your pockets.”
“You don’t need to please everybody but the one whom you love more than anybody.”
“Don’t be afraid of falling. By falling we learn to go safely.”
“Don’t try to make someone hate the person he loves, for he will still go on loving, but he will hate you.”
“He who is in the habit of sitting in the shade will not take an axe to the tree.”
“The pursuit of knowledge is never-ending. The day you stop seeking knowledge is the day you stop growing.”
“He who does not know how to walk cannot climb a ladder.”
“I cannot find language of sufficient energy to convey my sense of the sacredness of private integrity”
“I have yet to meet that person who has been angry and never become cool again.”
“Does planning make the man or woman? Maybe so, maybe not. But why take
the chance. Knowing without a doubt that you are prepared by doing your
homework provides a feeling that is beyond price the
confidence and power
needed to succeed in life.”
“It is better to talk to a woman and think of God than talk to God and think of a woman.”
“He who is accustomed to evil is offended by good.”
“He that is cruel to his own will not be cruel to others.”
“Wealth is a façade of the modern man but his behavior primal poverty.”
“If the clock didn’t have the hands, it would be useless.”
“He who carries the word “no” with him will never be poor even when he is old.”
“Don’t say your day is good till evening, for you don’t know what may happen before it.”
“He is a fool who thinks that another does not think.”
“A person who is always nice is not always nice.”
“He who shares the meat is always left with the bone.”
“Only do what your teacher says but not what he does.”
“When you're ahead of the game you're on top of the world. It leaves room for you to smile & engage with everyone whom you encounter because you're present.”
“He who is afraid to die, has already died.”
“A naked person is one whom even a thousand people cannot undress.”
“If you give away what you have, you will not yearn for what you see.”
“Lessons are all around us, if only we could recognize them.”
“In a fight with a fool it is a wise man who quits.”
“Don’t praise your wife before a year.”
“He who wears a smile instead of worrying is always the strongest.”
“Hunger brings people down, but pride can help them get up.”
“He who says he is happy in the desert means he knows where the well is.”
“If you tell quotation to a fool, it has to be explained to him.”
“It is easier to change rivers and mountains than human character.”
“An epic world of infinite possibilities, lies within our reach. All mankind has to do, is align itself; with its rules of being.”
“If one puts a rope around his neck, many will be happy to drag him by it.”
“He who has no shame before the world has no fear before God.”
“Many people count other people’s faults and ignore their own.”
“The only way I can survive is to become friends with the Monsters in my head”
“Every new effort gives you another possibility of changing your life”
“Past is gone, Future is not Known then should today be drown?”
“Learn of others through personal experience as we learn life by personal experience!”
“To me LIFE means Love It For Ever.
So Lead a life loving every thing that comes across - Good or Bad!!”
“Your efforts should match the size of your dreams”
“If you find breads and water in the desert, you are bound to find God somewhere too.”
“If you love somebody, don’t lend them.”
“In anger a man becomes dangerous to himself and to others.”
“No matter how tall the mountain is, there is always a road to the top of it.”
“Look at the man you serve and you will see how much you are esteemed.”
“You’re young if you’re healthy and rich if you have no debts.”
“An epic world of infinite possibilities, lies within our reach. All mankind has to do, is align itself; with its rules of being.”
“He whose needs are the least will always be the nearest to God.”
“Feel the fear and do it anyway.”
“Don’t take advice from people while building a house otherwise you will have a crooked house.”
“He who reigns within himself and rules his passions, desires, and fears is more
than a king.”
“You will find many to like you if you keep making a fool of yourself.”
“If you serve everybody, you will get thanks from nobody.”
“Many people in the world are killed by supper rather than by the sword.”
“If you want to be successful, follow the path of unsuccessful people, they will take you to the opportunities where successful people will never take you.”
“It is easy to die, anyone can die anywhere -- the difficulty lies in living.”
“Hello my little sunny it is money that begets money.”
“If you have people then you are richer than those who have only money.”
“If someone hates you, don’t let them find you hateful.”
“He who wants to kill a dog says that he has urinated against the mosque.”
“The world belongs to the patient person with an inspirations.”
“The mouse never takes the advice from the cat.”
“In this world generous people have no money and those with money are not generous.”
“If you are dependant on others, then you must make friends with the dog.”
“No matter if you know a thousand things, still consult him who knows one.”
“If the lions would start telling stories to their children, the hunter can’t beat them.”
“It is easier to know your enemies than to know your friends.”
“If you do not honor your parents, your children will not honor you.”
“Keep yourself away if there is a quarrel between a husband and his wife.”
“If you go to bed hungry, you will wake up without having slept.”
“Don’t look at the shape -- look at the character.”
“If you have no money, you have no friends; but if you have it, then they are not friends.”
“It is no use of discussing how long a snake is when he is in his house.”
“Judge a man by the comments of his neighbour rather than by the words of his mother.”
“It is never too late to give to those who do not have.”
“If you wish to be in good repute, let not the sun find you in bed.”
“If a person can give you a finger he will also give you the whole hand.”
“If you are looking for a friend without a flaw, you will never find one.”
“Instead of asking God to make something easier, ask him to make you stronger.”
“It is better to be poor than to live alone.”
“The man trying to find a horse or a wife without fault has neither steed in his stable nor angel in his bed.”
“If you want to marry for love, you will always live in pain.”
“Sweat, guts, and determination are the wrestling currencies”
“If the sea turned to honey, the poor would lose their spoon.”
“Wealth without work is vanity.”
“It is better to deal with the devil we know than the devil we don’t know.”
“If you shout at home you will bark away from home.”
“God gives each of us according to the quality of our hearts.”
“If you have no time to take care of your sickness, you get time to die.”
“No matter how misbehaved a child, the parents will accept.”
“You will have to walk on the road yourself, it will not tell you what lies ahead.”
“If you marry money, it will give birth to the devil.”
“You want what you want and they want what they want, but God does what He wants.”
“Judge everything not by the eye but by the heart.”
“It is foolish to lend your sword to anyone during the battle.”
“It is easier for the son to ask from the father than for the father to ask from the son.”
“A person can understand almost everything deeply through quotations.”
“If you have wine for your dinner, you will have water for your breakfast.”
“Not every bridge is going to be rainbow, but who said you can't paint the next with dreams?”
“The child who is given everything he asks for usually won’t succeed in life.”
“You need to learn to crawl before you try to walk.”
“You’ll become a lot better if you think about your death.”
“He is the best teacher who makes his pupil suffer the most.”
“It is not good for a husband to talk of pretty girls in front of his wife.”
“If you think about things too long, good thoughts will soon disappear.”
“If you really love your son, then make him leave home.”
“I only compete with 3 men : Me, Myself and I”
“If you want to be loved by all, first love God, then your mother and father.”
“Do not leave to the morning the business of the evening.”
“Money kills people more than weapons do.”
“Give me a stock clerk with a goal and I'll give you a man who will make history.
Give me a man with no goals and I'll give you a stock clerk.”
“Don’t make yourself poor to one who won’t make you rich.”
“If you sleep under a tree, you can’t prevent the leaf from falling on you.”
“If you want to know if someone has money, observe his beard and his boots.”
“To me "Dreams are not those which I get while sleeping,
Dreams are those which don't let me sleep"”
“Love your children more than money because you can laugh happily with them, but not with money.”
“If you want to please, never say things are going well.”
“Instead of giving your son a vineyard, teach him how to grow it otherwise he may not give you even a grape later.”
“A world without risk is a prison. Freedom and risk live together in harmony.”
“It is impossible to find a man who has everything, but it is possible to find one who enjoys the things he has.”
“No matter how generous you are, you don’t give your wife away.”
“Our parents teach us to speak and the world teaches us to be silent.”
“He that cannot obey, cannot command.”
“No matter if you wait for tomorrow or not, it will come tomorrow.”
“Life will show you what you did not know.”
“If you want to live in peace, you must not tell everything that you know, nor judge everything that you see.”
“Knowing everything about a man doesn’t take as much time as knowing about an animal.”
“Money can buy you everything except a father and a mother.”
“There is no mother like your own mother.”
“Quotations in conversation are torches in darkness.”
“One who does not obey the parents’ word will be taught by the world.”
“Never help a person who doesn’t help anybody else.”
“Leave your wife sometimes alone if you would really love her.”
“If you tell somebody to sit on your shoulders, he will try to climb on your head.”
“We all make a noise...Some are a whisper in the dark and some are a shout on the mountains, but we all make a noise.”
“Pay what you owe and you’ll know what you’re worth.”
“A person is always ready to favour him from whom he received a gift in the past.”
“No matter how strong you are, you always find someone stronger.”
“How to determine if a person has a rich or poor mentality;The discussions & the spending pattern.”
“None of us knows who we are.”
“Man has the capacity to do many things,but his best is really manifested in focusing on one thing.”
“Every day is important,even today.”
“You are the manifestation of the imagination of God.”
“Venture out your seeds into many soils,for one definitely shall yield unimaginable harvest for you.”
“Until you venture out,your dreams will only remain an adventure in your mind.”
“life's irony;Inside that shy character is a public speaker waiting patiently to manifest.”
“The only degree that can make you wealthy in life is not your college degree,but your thinking degree.”
“Never desire to live long in life,but rather desire to do things that will live long in the hearts of men.”
“It is easy to perform a good action, but not easy to acquire a settled habit of performing such actions.”
“I don't walk the trodden path,I make my own path the trodden path.”
“It's always fun to do the impossible.”
“Even Gods become mortals when none belives in them.”
“I decided to accept people for where they are in life, keeping in mind that I would never be there again.”
“You must never forget that when your gift, becomes part of your purpose. Your purpose will suffer persecution for that gift.”
“We wanted to do something a little different, something that would bring out the locals to celebrate spring and inspire pride in our hometown.”
“A person who is angry with one is angry with the other.”
“Never refuse an invitation or a good offer.”
“Love someone as if they were about to die tomorrow.”
“It is the crime that causes the shame, and not the punishment.”
“One word of wisdom is as good as a hundred ordinary words.”
“Love is blind because it is lawless.”
“Man is so intelligent animal on earth that if he was empowered as much as God, he would start battling with him to get his position.”
“The good thing about a secret is that women don’t know what a secret is.”
“The enemy of a father will never be friends of his son.”
“If your looking for a helping hand you need not look any further than the end of your own arm.”
“When someone offends you, it simply means that you haven’t given him enough love.”
“Saying NO is a liability, but saying YES is an asset.”
“Spending money is like pouring water into sand and earning it is like taking water back from sand.”
“Solitude is the nest of thoughts.”
“Plant ‘if’ and ‘when’ and you will grow ‘nothing’.”
“You don’t need to take advice from somebody. Wait for your time, it is the best advisor.”
“One good quotation is often worth more than two good friends.”
“Prepare yourself for when the water comes up to your knees.”
“Show me your wife and I will tell you what kind of a husband she has.”
“The person whose stomach is full does not know what a hungry person feels.”
“The greatest charity is to enable the poor to earn a living.”
“The loss which your neighbour does not know is no real loss.”
“A fool’s excuse is always bigger than the mistake he made.”
“The first service a child does his father is to make him foolish.”
“You must know something about a person before you hate him.”
“The person who is always criticizing others is usually the one who deserves criticism the most.”
“The most difficult master is the servant who became master.”
“If someone is going down the wrong road, he doesn't need motivation to speed him up. What he needs is education to turn him around”
“Somewhere something is good for somebody as well as bad for someone else.”
“Talking about lions is not the same as facing them in the forest.”
“The greatest courage you can have is the courage to admit your mistakes.”
“The purpose of life is to live an ordinary life in an extraordinary manner.”
“The best way to find happiness is not to search for it.”
“The pleasure that forgiveness gives you can’t be achieved from revenge.”
“We are nothing here but just candles burning in the wind.”
“The child weeps for its good and the old man for his ill.”
“The anvil never takes advice from the hammer.”
“Your tongue is more foolish than you but your ears are wiser than you.”
“Teach your tongue to say “I don’t know” instead of making up something.”
“I looked into a black hole today...I said ' Yes!! thats where I belong', the black hole said ' you belong here on one condition.....you bring me a light to illuminate my world, then you can see if you belong......”
“The one who does not risk anything does not gain nor lose.”
“Those who know how to praise also know how to lie.”
“Time is a river of passing events and we are the fish searching for an ocean.”
“Looking through the windows, I just heard the silence passing through the doorway.”
“To an ignorant, a small garden is a forest.”
“To be without knowledge is to be without light.”
“To give in order to receive is not to give, but to beg.”
“To try to make somebody love you is as hard as to try to walk on snow leaving no footprints.”
“The best way to destroy an enemy is to make him your friend but remember an old one will never become your friend.”
“The temple is nearby, God is far away.”
“The hand which gives is far better than the one which receives.”
“Education is what remains after one has forgotten everything he learned in school.”
“There is no use of running when you are on the wrong way.”
“There is not much difference between a greedy person and a pauper.”
“There is nothing worse than a person looking for a quarrel.”
“Always remember, others may hate you, but those who hate you don't win unless
you hate the man then you destroy yourself.”
“Two people may become enemies when their ideas are the same.”
“The water from the river becomes salty when it gets into the ocean.”
“We are only what our thinking makes us.”
“The rich man thinks about the future the poor man thinks about today.”
“The wise man stops being wise when he gets angry.”
“Just because you say you are great doesn’t mean you are.”
“There are people in the world who deserve paradise for their thoughts and hell for their deeds.”
“The worst kind of person is one whose power of speech is greater than his power of thought.”
“When you go to fetch water and do not return, they do not inquire about the pot.”
“There is no charity without love.”
“There are things that you don’t do when you know that people are watching you.”
“There are people who plant thorns in their garden expecting to gather roses.”
“When all men say you are a dog, it is time to bark.”
“Your enemy is not the one who harms you, but the one who makes you evil.”
“When the fool knows when to be silent, he would be sitting among the wise.”
“A man should look for what is, and not for what he thinks should be.”
“You can stop speaking to someone, but you cannot stop being related.”
“Ask someone else for advice but keep your knowledge to yourself.”
“The pleasure of finding something is worth more than what you find.”
“The place where you are happy is better than the place you were born.”
“When God wants to help you, he comes all the way to your house.”
“When the devil changes the music, people also change the dance.”
“A borrower may not lend the thing he borrowed.”
“The land where the stones know you is worth more than the land where the people know you.”
“The wife carries the husband on her face; the husband carries the wife on his clothes.”
“Ask for advice, and then use your brain.”
“No matter how beautiful the shoes are, they still have to go on the ground.”
“A wife’s advice is not worth much, but woe to the husband who refuses to take it.”
“There is always one fine thing between nothing and everything and that is money.”
“The more you inspire, the better you lead.”
“If you give me rice, I’ll eat today; If you teach me how to grow rice, you'll never see me again.”
“Small is the number of people who see with their eyes and think with their minds.”
“Love is strictly a travelling. It is better to travel than to arrive.”
“If I discover within myself a desire which no experience in this world can satisfy, the most probable explanation is that I was made for another world”
“Life is measured by the number of things you are alive to.”
“The true sign of intelligence is not knowledge but imagination.”
“Don’t spend time worrying about tomorrow, when today is passing you by.”
“Keep building your word-power. Read, read, read. That way you will be able to say what you really feel.”
“You are good enough. You don’t need to prove anything to anyone - just to yourself.”
“If you design a future that inspires others as much as it inspires you, the world will conspire to make it happen.”
“If you design a future that inspires others as much as it inspires you, the world will conspire to make it happen.”
“The best form of flattery is to master the art of listening.”
“Challenges are the most truthful and strictest of teachers.”
“Just as the sky has more than enough space for all the birds to fly without commotion,so also this Universe,for it can accommodate all our ideas with room for more.”
“It is up to you to make yourself happy. No one can make you unhappy unless you let them.”
“If you are a dog, you have to bark! Know who you are and really be that person in every word and action.”
“I will judge my success in life by how many people feel safe enough to cry in my arms.”
“Logic will get you from A to B. Imagination will take you everywhere.”
“♥♥ Kitna pyar karte hai hum unse.. Kash unhe bi ye ehsaas ho jaye.. Kahi aisa na ho ki woh hosh mein tab aye.. Jab hum KISI aur ke ho jaye.!!! ♥♥
See More At :- www.facebook.com/loverspost1”
“Do you know why God made most parts of our body double and made some parts like: heart.....single?
It is to find an other single to make it double. ♥♥
See More At :- www.facebook.com/loverspost1”
“Relationship is not just a word, It's perfect match between two souls, It's a silent commitment, Which says, I will be with you.★♥★ ★♥★
See More At :- www.facebook.com/loverspost1”
“Excellence in any department can be attained only by the labor of a lifetime; it is not to be purchased at a lesser price.”
“Never worry about how you tell someone you love them. Just go ahead and say it. The word “I love you” could never come out wrong. The only wrong way to say it would be not saying it at all. ♥♥
See More At :- www.facebook.com/loverspost1”
“Don't wait until it's too late
to tell someone how much you love,
how much you care.
Because when they're gone,
no matter how loud you shout and cry,
they won't hear you anymore....
See More At :- www.facebook.com/loverspost1”
“Every Boy's wish:
I'm not a Prince but my life-partner should be a Princess.
True Lover's wish:
My life-partner may not be a Princess but I promise I'll treat her like a Princess!
See More At :- www.facebook.com/loverspost1”
“The finest gift you can give anyone is encouragement. If everyone received the
encouragement they need to grow, the genius in most everyone would blossom
and the world would produce abundance beyond the wildest dreams.”
“Har Ladki K Life Me 1 Aisa Ladka Hota
Hai
Jise Wo Bhula Nahi Sakti..
Aur..
.
.
Har Ladke Ki Life Me 1 Aisi Ladki Hoti
Hai,
.
.
Jise Wo Pa Nahi sakta..... ♥♥♥♥
See More At :- www.facebook.com/loverspost1”
“Dear Someone,
I LOVE YOU
never forget that..
`
See More At :- www.facebook.com/loverspost1”
“I can't promise that things will be perfect, but i swear i'll never leave ♥♥
See More At :- www.facebook.com/loverspost1”
“Any man who can drive safely while kissing a pretty girl is simply not giving the kiss the attention it deserves.”
“Love is not to say,
But to understand.
Love is not to show,
But to feel inside.
Love is not to find faults,
But to make the best.
Love is not to demand,
But to sacrifice.
Love is not to hurt,
But to take care of.
Love is not blind,
But it doesn't need to see ♥♥♥♥
See More At :- www.facebook.com/loverspost1”
“The wise knows that their destinies follows the words they speak,so they declare with confidence.”
“Superb lines by a true frnd-
.
.
.
"I was only a time pass in your life...
But someday u wil truly realize that-
the time passed wid me was the
most beautiful time ever... ♥♥
See More At :- www.facebook.com/loverspost1”
“If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough”
“Everything has to begin one day to become something someday...”
“Success isnt for the weak,”
“So you want to be a man? You will become a man on the day that you profoundly respect every woman you meet.”
“It is not what you say, it is the questions you ask that are important. The only stupid question is the one you don’t ask.”
“You are all you have to offer the world. Know yourself, love yourself and be yourself.”
“Judge a man by his ability to ignore how other men judge him”
“Those with less ability should work harder instead of making excuses.”
“Entrepreneur is the one who gives birth to an idea and then treats it like a baby.”
“There is no poverty where there is character, and no wealth or honour where character is missing”
“One learns compromise by accepting the good with the bad.”
“It is difficult to forgive those who steal our time.”
“Those who are trying to impress others must puff themselves up.”
“Be just to all, but trust not all.”
“If one is in harmony with his family, he has found the secret of success.”
“Absence never makes the heart grow fonder because those who are out of sight are out of mind.”
“God whispers to us in our pleasures, speaks to us in our conscience, but shouts in our pains: It is His megaphone to rouse a deaf world”
“I know the quotes, you know the quotes, but does the dog know the quotes?”
“To be successful you've got to have a dream, a vision, a burning passion, a
magnificent obsession. This dream, goal, obsession has to become your prime
motivator. It takes enthusiasm, commitment, pride, a willingness to work hard, a
willingness to go the extra mile, a willingness to do whatever has to be done in
order to get the job done.”
“There is no harm in reminding your relatives and friends that it is better to give than to receive.”
“parbat sa vishal, samundar sa udaar,
iski pundtaa mein, nadiyon ka balidan,
shant,sheetal, sahansheel ban kar diya, inhe pundtaa ka raas,
aisa manav tu bhi ban jaa,
jahan tu jaye ,mahanta he samaye
nasht na kar apne waqt ko, jeevan swaroop shist ko...”
“I don’t know about man’s love, but every day is a child loving day.”
“We can't continue to think mediocre thoughts & then pray & hope that all shall be well.”
“A man is known by the company he keeps, but a woman by the man who keeps her.”
“The only man that can fight for life is the one that is afraid of death.”
“The course of true love never remains the same according to its syllabus.”
“We don't know Where God is, Who God is or What God is… BUT GOD IS!”
“When you are in doubt what to do, it is wise to do nothing.”
““I AM... Meeting Everything Through LOVE.””
“Every man for himself and the Devil for all.”
“Experience is as effective a teacher as a woman because one does tend to remember her lessons.”
“Hope lights up our darkness.”
“If you are a "Death Metal" fan and you don't like "Black Metal" or any other genre...you know what "that is your problem".”
“Forgive the person who confesses his fault because it is already half redressed.”
“I think of a hero as someone who understands the degree of responsibility that
comes with his freedom.”
“There is a first time for everything and last for nothing.”
“A vision keeps the Wealthy Soul focused on the path and not on the boulders.”
“It seems one must leave home to learn the definition of life.”
“God helps and also remembers those who help others before they help themselves.”
“Whom the gods love die young, that’s why only the gods love war.”
“The platform is there to inspire.”
“A little knowledge may or may not be a dangerous thing. It will certainly soon be more expensive.”
“If you can hide love and a cough, then I say you can hide your ignorance too.”
“Even if no one can love and be wise at the same time, but they can flirt and be wise at the same time.”
“Man proposes, God disposes is not the matter, the matter is what man possesses.”
“Money makes a man; even if he were a monkey before to start with.”
“There are two things that are without law, God and necessity.”
“Strong and decided measures prevail best with troublesome people.”
“Trash talk always inspires me.”
“Everything in life is a matter of luck. If luck is with you, people will know where you live.”
“The whole world says, "be yourself" but what after "marriage"?”
“You will never get disappointed if you do not desire what you do not deserve.”
“Life throws curves. How you deal with life's adversities is a testament to your character.”
“Beware of the person who speaks without modesty because he will always break his promises.”
“Little persons try to be perfect while great ones do not know they are great.”
“One who does not like to read is equal to one who cannot read.”
“Duty is ours; results are God's”
“People are like trees, the leaves are many but the root is one and remember only a good foundation guarantees success and longevity.”
“Bad things should be written in the sand and Good things carved in stone so that they could be remembered.”
“To love is to remember. If you are forgotten, you are dead.”
“Only you can take away your honor.”
“Looking forward to a world of opportunity is great. Looking back on missed opportunity is not. Grab it now!”
“We must first positively influence and lead ourselves before we can positively influence or lead others.”
“A real poor person is the one who can’t promise anything.”
“Someday is code for NEVER, so go out and Live Life Large TODAY!”
“Make yourself solely responsible for resolving problems with other people. If you wait for the other party to do something you may be waiting a long time.”
“The day you will stop having fun, you will start growing old.”
“People of great thoughts can become people of great deeds.”
“In every great time there is some one idea at work which is more powerful than any other, and which shapes the events of the time and determines their ultimate issues.”
“I'm the parent should never to be a provoking measurement of discipline to rule over the children that God has gifted to us.”
“Not your WORDS, but your WORKS, should speak for You!”
“We should not to be mad at the challenges that others face. We should be sad. Because sad is what equipped us to become aware of our own challenges.”
“When eyes meet exchanges begin.”
“Past in gone, future may not be seen.. live for the moment cause its not a dream..”
“I am thankful to those who criticized me because they gave me the reason to be better..”
“I am thankful to those who criticize me because they give me the reason to be better..”
“There's nothing so beautiful and as patient as "nature".”
“Purpose is that Power that will propel you to get out of bed each morning and push you to make your Dreams come true.-RVM”
“Sometimes, arguments are necessary so that everyone breathes fresh air!”
“I can see a winner in everyone.. you can at least see one in yourself..”
“That irritating moment when a band member tells, "we don't give a shit to the music industry" but in reality they actually do...!”
“The solution to your life's many problems lies not between one continent nor another,but rather in between your two ears.”
“A new day simply means renewed motivation.”
“first believe in yourself and then people will believe in you”
“Hate is nothing more than a distortion of love itself”
“An old man marrying a young girl is like buying a car for somebody else to drive.”
“He who has no house of his own is everywhere at home.”
“A learned woman is a lost woman.”
“Make every thought, every fact, that comes into your mind pay you a profit. Make it work and produce for you. Think of things not as they are but as they might be. Don't merely dream - but create!”
“The glory of man is knowledge, but the glory of woman is to renounce knowledge.”
“After all, harming others means you first harm yourself.”
“People are like trees and if they have no branches or leaves, they accuse the sun of partiality instead of blaming themselves.”
“What can be added to the happiness of a man who is in health, out of debt, and has a clear conscience?”
“Don’t expect from others what you can’t promise them yourself.”
“And then they said, "today many folks have DSLR camera's and they making professional's suffer". Hope you remember "how" and "when" you started?”
“He who is everybody’s friend is either very poor or very rich.”
“Be glad when you go through trials & poverty,because they are teachers of life's valuable lessons.”
“The man who leaves his family will be left by God.”
“A person having no sickness is happy and having no debts is rich.”
“Never play with the Devil if you are afraid to shake the dice because you will never throw a six.”
“Don't promise. Do and show!”
“If someone whom you lent money and won’t pay you back will always hate you.”
“Do only one thing at a time. It is lazy people who want to do everything at the same time.”
“No one is more afraid of ghosts than those that don’t believe in them.”
“Effort, even when futile, is a worthy endeavor.”
“If you want to remain something a secret forever, then never do anything.”
“The powerful are never faithful and the rich are seldom.”
“It is easier to be human than to be a human being.”
“When building a business or life plan, leave room for error.”
“Knowledge is everything but without practice is nothing.”
“To know and know that you know, not to know and know that you don’t know, that is to know.”
“There are two types of people I have seen : those who fish and those who only disturb the water.”
“I was not sent here to sell wings upon the Earth.”
“A person without learning is like a beast dressed up in man’s clothes in the field.”
“Treat your thoughts as if they were guests and wishes as if they were children.”
“To know someone is not to know their face, but to know their heart.”
“You will never lose a battle if you know your own situation as well as that of the enemy.”
“You can complain about the house where the husband is the wife.”
“Don’t let anyone know about your secret money.”
“You don’t need to worry if people call you ordinary -- only if you are ordinary.”
“Let me look at your house and I will tell you who you are.”
“Listen with your ears, look with your eyes, but keep silent with your mouth.”
“It is better to be on your own than with people you don’t like.”
“Don’t talk too much because ignorance is greater and more dangerous than your knowledge.”
“A really great unfortunate person is one who cannot find water even in the sea.”
“You will always be right if you suspect that you are always wrong.”
“He that is rich will not be called a fool.”
“If you have both money and bread, you can select with whom your daughter to wed.”
“If you can't love the person you see in the mirror every day, & live with every moments of your life, how can you love someone else?”
“He who never has enough, never has anything.”
“If everything belongs to everybody, then nothing belongs to nobody.”
“Believe no man more than yourself when you are spoken of.”
“You exist only by the imagination of God.”
“He who tells his own secret will hardly keep another’s.”
“If you have nothing better to do, go to bed with your own wife.”
“Love is like hunting, you can begin when you like and stop when you can.”
“Life. Is a sentence, therein, weave your story toward freedom.”
“Keeping a woman to her word is like trying to hold an alligator by its tail.”
“Memory is life’s clock and clock is life’s moments.”
“Say nothing when you are giving -- only say something when you are receiving.”
“It is important to dream because those who don't, chase someone else's dream.”
“The best way to spend the happiest life is to know nothing.”
“Having too many friends is as bad as having no friends at all.”
“I am not sure anyone loves you if you hate yourself but many will hate you if you love yourself.”
“If you want to talk with the dogs, you must learn to bark, and bark like an old dog because he doesn’t bark without reason.”
“Nothing comes out of nothing but something always comes out of everything.”
“If you love someone and they say A, then you shouldn’t say A, you should say B.”
“Money doesn’t ask anyone to show the way, it always makes its own way.”
“Before money, woman is the root of all evil because if woman didn’t exist, money would have no meaning.”
“It is better to choose a wife with your ears than with your eyes.”
“Neither lend money to a great man nor borrow it from a powerful one.”
“Spending money more than you can earn is spinning a rope around your own neck.”
“If you lend something you may lose it, but not if you give it. Giving is much better than Lending.”
“No matter how busy idle people are, they always find time for everything.”
“Real love is when you don’t need to tell each other everything.”
“A man is not a man until he leaves his home or has a house of his own.”
“If you are always looking at the sky, you will never discover anything on the ground.”
“If you don’t feel jealousy, then you are not in love.”
“If you do what you always did you will always remain what you are.”
“If you say that money is God, then you should also remember that it is also the root of all evil.”
“Ignorance is darker than night.”
“Students are the only consumers who do not want what they pay for.”
“Much money, many friends; little money, no friends.”
“The more mistakes you make, the fewer mistakes are left have to be made.”
“War is created by people who are too old to fight for those who are too young to die.”
“Beware of a naked person who promises to buy you clothes.”
“Many people sow rice in their fields and expect to harvest maize.”
“Keep in touch with the people who have something to gain rather than those who have nothing to lose.”
“When a person comes to know his own mistakes, Gets ability to avoid his Problems”
“To question one's own motivation and desire, is to become the person you were socially designed to become.”
“If you have not learnt anything, but have learnt one thing that the Goal of life is to be Happy, you have learnt everything!-RVM”
“If you have not learnt anything, but have learnt one thing that the Goal of life is to be Happy, you have learnt everything!-RVM”
“If your presence makes others happy then you need to remain but if it makes others deplorable then you need to change”
“Most of the times I am struggling to achieve more without even enjoying the things which I already have”
“To plan is easy. To execute is tough. But the toughest is to execute as per your plans.”
“You want to accumulate more or you want to enjoy more?”
“The wise loves to democratize riches,but the fool prefers to monopolise it.”
“Having or not Having is just a state of mind - nothing to do with your actual requirements.”
“While the foolish say they already know,the wise will say i need to know more.”
“One of life's most powerful phrases is the saying "Give us this day".”
“Greatness is who we become on the journey, not what we achieve at the end.”
“Brave is the warrior within we must exhibit while facing hardship, if not for ourselves, then at least for our loved ones.”
“Man is less powerful than yesterday,he is also less powerful than tomorrow,but he has absolute power over today.”
“For an employer it worse to have their employees Unionized in their minds, then physically belonging to a union.”
“Go on beating drums about your problems, or go beat your problems.”
“Don't wait until you're sick to get healthy”
“True Blessings Are What We Share With Others!”
“Having friends that support your negative behavior is not true friendship. You need friends that uplift you and keep you on point”
“I have been acting all my life. Not traditionally per se, but on the stage of life. Where there is no bigger audience, and the line of critics never end.”
“Choices, not Chances, are responsible for the quality of our Life. Spend time to Think, Reflect, Introspect & then Choose.-RVM”
“Choices, not Chances, are responsible for the quality of our Life. Spend time to Think, Reflect, Introspect & then Choose.-RVM”
“I think that spending each moment of two minutes in God is much better than spending each moment of two days in hospital.”
“Do not judge, and you will never be mistaken”
“No matter the very unpleasant circumstances in your life,always remain loyal to yourself.”
“The greatest danger for most of us is not that our aim is too high and we miss it,
but that it is too low and we reach it.”
“Oh mighty belief,forgive us our sins,for our doubts often cheat us of the very good plans you always have in stock for us.”
“You do not have to be perfect to be great. In fact the very seed of greatness lies in our imperfection; in our ability to learn and grow, to reach and fail and yet reach again.”
“Don't discuss about other's success... experience it yourself and let the other's discuss you...”
“The quickest way to succeed is to keep your mistakes closer than your desire for success.”
“Don't matter what you look like or color of your skin your still special in many ways.”
“Happiness Is. Happiness is here, now, in this moment. Happiness is not about what you have in your life, it is about the perspective with which you choose to view your life.”
“There are people in the world having greater faith in those things which they do not understand.”
“Spiritual Miranda Rights
You have the right to think and speak as you choose (be careful what you say and think)
You have the right to live the life as you choose; you have the right to love the right to hate, and the right to reap the consequences of your actions, you the have the right to believe whatever you choose to believe without the interference of others. If you do not understand the rights I suggest you learn them quickly. Do you understand these rights as read to you ?”
“Men are attached to two types of women : those who wear well and those who wear little.”
“Marriage is an association of two persons for the purpose of making one the beneficiary.”
“You can’t judge a woman by her clothes, insufficient evidences!”
“Marry a poor woman and it is God who will make you rich.”
“Another reason for unhappy marriage is that men can’t fool their wives as they could their mothers.”
“TRY NOT TO BECOME A VICTIM, BUT A PERSON WHO LEARN FROM EXPERIENCE”
“The conveyor belt of time stops for no man...only God can stop it”
“Dare to share for to Give is to truly Live. -RVM”
“Sometimes the best plan is to simply take action and the plan will then become clearer...”
“When a person acts without knowledge of what he thinks, feels, needs or wants, he does not yet have the option of choosing to act differently.”
“Place this notice on the door of your life, " I have decided to believe in this life,what about you.”
“I just want to live till I Die. I want to open my wings and fly.-RVM”
“Let’s put smiles on faces that don’t feel like smiling.”
“If all of Mankind was in a trance, Mankind would be with God.”
“There is a fortune each new day brings,but only those that seek it,find it.”
“Change is a natural part of life but only with special certain people in your life, nothing will ever change between you & that person.”
“Love is like a TV, it turns on & off on the daily, I'd like too say one thing love & the TV don't have in common is a remote.”
“Quarrelling with a drunkard is like disputing with a man who is not present there.”
“I am lovable and each day it becomes easier for me to love myself.”
“I have the courage to ask for support when I need it. I am willing to support others when they need my help.”
“You can measure your desire for going to Heaven by what you have done to others.”
“We Learn . . .
10% of what we read
20% of what we hear
30% of what we see
50% of what we see and hear
70% of what we discuss
80% of what we experience
95% of what we teach others.”
“If a man is born, he should be born either a king or a fool.”
“They don't see the value of being alone with themselves.”
“If you are better than all others, then you are greater than all those.”
“The most valuable thing you can make is a mistake - you can't learn anything from being perfect.”
“Just because you don’t deserve punishment for your thoughts doesn’t mean you have to think only poor ones.”
“The man who desires to become rich, desires to become rich quickly and quickly fail if he wants to become rich quick.”
“I always take my anger lightly. I examine my anger and learn from it every time.”
“I stand in Awe of the power of God”
“Love is a disease which cannot be cured by medicinal herbs.”
“It is better to trust your eyes than your ears, but not at the time of choosing your wife.”
“Don't regret having lost your money; maybe, if you kept it, it would have lost you.”
“Let me give a tip. You can't be right with God if you are not right with others.”
“If a man is in love, he is hungry, even if he is not hungry.”
“If you love someone and they want to leave you, let them go because they never belong to you.”
“Everybody wishes to know, but nobody is ready to pay the price.”
“If you don't stand for something you will fall for anything.”
“The fool doesn't think anything well done except what he did or what he is doing.”
“It is really disgraceful to hate the one whom you praise.”
“An excuse is a spoke of your bike which you take out of it on your highway to success.”
“Your smile is rarer than diamonds; People aught to dig deep to find it.”
“Mistakes are a part of life, If you don't make any, you can't move on.”
“Never be afraid to ask if there is something you do not understand.”
“If you don't get a kick out of the job you are doing, you better kick it and look for another one. Love what you do or just don’t do it.-RVM”
“If you don't get a kick out of the job you are doing, you better kick it and look for another one. Love what you do or just don’t do it.-RVM”
“If I don't have to do it, I won't. If I have to do it, I'll make it quick!”
“A man is to his wife,what the conscious being is to the subconscious being.”
“For your dream to see reality & also become stronger,it must pass through fire & brimstone.”
“As we have come to this world,some day we shall all leave,but when we leave our character stays forever.”
“Nothing wearies your adversaries like when you are persistent & consistent.”
“Complains & murmur repels the infinite,just the way a nagging wife repels her husband.”
“Music,poverty & reading are three of a kind,for they help to enhance your imagination faculty.”
“Duties are not performed for duties' sake, but because their neglect would make
the man uncomfortable. A man performs but one duty, the duty of contenting his spirit, the duty of making himself agreeable to himself.”
“When your conscious & subconscious being become one,then all things shall become possible.”
“Music & a grateful heart attracts the infinite,just the way bees swamp around honey.”
“Becareful what you see,for once the eyes sees,the spirit strives to reach.”
“There are always flowers for those who want to see them.”
“Knowledge is power. Learn something new every day.”
“Some people learn from their mistakes. Others keep repeating the same mistakes. Be smart. Don't do it again.”
“You have a voice, make it counts.”
“Life is a bulldozer, make your own way”
“Be bold and not afraid of a challenge once you know for certain what you want to achieve, go after it.”
“It's never too late to regain control of your life.Take the risk and go for it.”
“Sometimes challenge yourself,you don't know how strong, great and smart you are until you put yourself to a test.”
“If honesty is the first chapter in the book of wisdom then integrity is the last chapter. In between you have to explore your own chapters.”
“Even a minute of pure silence through meditation first thing in the morning is a daily gift one give to oneself.”
““Once you truly understand that it is okay to lose or fail, you are free, you have nothing to fear, and only then, can nothing in this world hold you back.””
““Motivation is the essence of human progress.””
““Conformity is a cage that confines our ability to think. It is a cage that hinders growth and deters individualism””
““To give something meaning, is to give something hope, It is to give something life.””
“Provide me with an ink, paper, inspiration and place me on the high point on the edge with the sunset and sunrise, and I will make a masterpiece for you”
“True love is recognized in the eyes of God, your companion and your own, not anyone else.”
“IU Kokomo is On The Move”
“The best way to lose weight is to never have put it on in the first place.”
“The more that you read, the more things you will know. The more that you learn, the more places you'll go.”
“It takes 66 days to start a habit, but it takes years to master it”
“Not only the good thaught we had,made our bond strong.But also the quarrel that gave us understanding.”
“Dance before the music is over. Live before your Life is over.-RVM”
“I've never fallen for somebody.I've seen so many getting hurt,that I don't think I ever will.If I do I hope I won't end up just like them, because then there is no going back.”
“Não é por meio de debates e discussões que a mente é iluminada. Devemos olhar e viver. Nicodemos recebeu a lição, e levou-a consigo. Examinou as Escrituras de maneira nova, não para a discussão de uma teoria, mas a fim de receber a vida eterna. Começou a ver o reino de Deus, ao submeter-se à direção do Espírito Santo. {DTN 114.2}”
“Os que são fiéis à vocação de mensageiros de Deus, não buscarão honra para si mesmos. O amor do próprio eu será absorvido pelo amor a Cristo. Nenhuma rivalidade manchará a preciosa causa do evangelho.{DTN 117.3}”
“Só podemos receber da luz do Céu, à medida que formos voluntários em nos esvaziar do próprio eu. Não podemos discernir o caráter de Deus, ou aceitar a Cristo pela fé, a menos que consintamos em levar cativo todo pensamento à obediência de Cristo. A todos quantos assim fazem, é o Espírito Santo dado sem medida. {DTN 117.5}”
“How we handle our rights, and the rights of others determine how much Satan has a handle on us.”
“I have to remember the next time I become frustrated and stressed out, it is because I am about to learn something.”
“Our beliefs are further empowered & fortified when we declare.”
“PEACE is the foundation of Happiness —for where there is Anxiety, Tension and Turmoil, Joy cannot exist.-RVM”
“It must be remembered that the purpose of education is not to fill the minds of students with facts…it is to teach them to think.”
“Respect the women that respect themselves ,disrespect the women who don't respect themselves”
“Welcome in my glass room..
Where words are shattered into meaning.
Where sun glistens of the stained glass walls...
Where truth holds no greater value than moments passed...”
“Try & try one day you can fly & die
,Don't Try Anything Way Too Much”
“Your brain is limited only by your imagination!
Dream, Aspire,Work towards making your dream a reality.
Challenge yourself to think differently!”
“The truth of God will always calm, compose, and quiet many. While many that are unaware of his truth will screech, scrawl, and fumble.”
“Lots of people are lost. Very few of them will defy their ego and ask for directions”
“First you Yearn to Earn. Then you Learn that others will Burn what you Earn. Stop! Turn and Spend before your End.-RVM”
“First you Yearn to Earn. Then you Learn that others will Burn what you Earn. Stop! Turn and Spend before your End.-RVM”
“Friendship is like a picture; first it is sketched; then it is done in neat; then it is made vibrant!”
“My biggest fear is to wake up in the morning and see the world has moved on without me.”
“I want the bigger picture, not just the camera.”
“Language is to communicate, not to embarrass people”
“Ugly is nothing more than a casting of yourself being captivated by someone else.”
“Motivation , Desperation and Inspiration, combine these three and the product will be innovation, salvation, creation, revolution, evolution, ...!!!”
“If I can help a single soul during my lifetime, then I am pretty sure that my existence in this world has been worth it.”
“Welcome in my glass room..
Where words are shattered into meaning.
Where sun glistens of the stained glass walls...
Where truth holds no greater value than moments passed...”
“Never worry yourself if you don't pray,but rather worry yourself if you don't have positive desires,for your desire is your prayer.”
“When I look inside my heart, I see you.”
“When inspiration comes life is lived in the moment and peace descends. When inspiration leaves thoughts turn to violently killing time”
“Who says i am atheist? When i get high , I always pray to god," Plz do save me , Next time i will not do this shit"”
“Dream the implausible, then construct reality through your actions.”
“He that places money ahead of humanity is unwise.”
“I just want all my dreams to come true; If not today then anytime soon.”
“You Can Change The World, But it Must Start with Your Mental Attitude and Then Share. Pass It On!!!”
“We must build each other up, for when the world falls we will stand”
“A smile does not cost much money. It only lights up the whole world and keeps you happy.”
“In all things be good. Goodness resembles the most God and disarms the most people.”
“If your dream is to catch an eagle,then experiment by catching a chicken first.”
“To die in your conscious being & come alive in your sub-conscious being,is to make your dreams come to pass.”
“If you are avoiding failure, you are avoiding success.”
“as man can't jump without bending, so also he can't succeed without failure”
“Tomorrow won’t matter much if you don’t walk the walk today.”
“For every idea comes a lesson”
“There is nothing but comparison that makes people happy or miserable.”
“As long as the words in your mouth, it is your own; when they are once spoken, they are another’s.”
“Don’t forget three rules for success : Never tell anyone everything you have, you know and you can do.”
“Only alone you can Live Life but Together you can Make Life”
“Hire the best. Pay them fairly. Communicate frequently. Provide challenges and
rewards. Believe in them. Get out of their way and they'll knock your socks off.”
“You can’t raise your child probably if you don’t sometimes raise your voice.”
“Fathers should teach their sons how to earn money because mothers teach their daughters how to spend it.”
“The only man who doesn’t think a woman talks too much is the man who is in love with her.”
“If you are no trouble to your children now, they will be a trouble to you when they grow up.”
“Girls who chatter don’t much matter.”
“Make the best use of time. Don’t spend time brooding over past mistakes or worrying about the future. Remember, time lost can never be regained.”
“Bring up your children in the way you think other people’s children should go.”
“Many people think that if they were only in some other place, or had some other job, they would be happy. Well, that is doubtful. So get as much happiness out of what you are doing as you can and don't put off being happy until some future date.”
“Getting things on credit is like getting them for nothing and paying for them later is like throwing the money away.”
“Spending half as much money and twice as much time on children is a good rule to follow to bring up them.”
“A man’s appearance shows how much he is earning and his wife’s appearance shows how much he is spending.”
“Don’t worry about finding your station in life; there is always someone who will tell you where to get off.”
“There are two kinds of dieters: those who are always telling you what to eat and those who are always telling you what not to eat.”
“It is easy to forget when you borrow money but easy to remember when you lend it.”
“Time may be money, but the best thing parents can spend on their children is not money, but time.”
“My years in your service will always be very special to me. The inspiration you have given me will burn brightly in my heart long after I have left the lights of the White House behind.”
“Many accidents in the home occur in the kitchen, more in the bathroom but most occur in the bedroom.”
“Mediocrity inspires neither great love nor hate.”
“Some women never talk about other women; they are too busy talking about themselves.”
“Every great inspiration is but an experiment.”
“The advantage of having many children is that one of them may not turn out like the rest.”
“The man who never lends his books probably remembers how he acquired them.”
“Show kindness to your near and dear ones, first. Help them. Ensure their happiness. Only then set out to wipe the tears from the eyes of others.”
“The music comes first. When Geoff has made something the inspiration comes automatically. His music is very expressive. But still is is a very difficult process: I have to add something to his music, not push it away. It has to be equal, and I find that very difficult.”
“The child who is being raised strictly by the book is probably a first edition.”
“The less you say, the more you don’t have to apologize.”
“There are some people who are always in the conversation when they are not there.”
“I think the excitement factor is crucial. I think that we desperately need inspiration and we desperately need an investment in our long-term future.”
“A bridegroom is a man who agrees to marriage before marriage disagrees with him.”
“To master a lesson or any art there is no short cut. One has to work hard, practise for hours, keep on doing it till one gets it right.”
“You appreciate some people most when they deprive you of the pleasure of their company.”
“IF YOU CAN'T TELL A STORY, ALWAYS START AT THE END ...”
“Good knowledge of an art or profession is essential to be successful in life. A man with insufficient knowledge will always cause harm to himself and others.”
“An apology is saying the right thing after doing the wrong thing.”
“If you never take advice, you will never have anyone to blame things on.”
“An apology is an expression of regret where the voice rarely matches the words.”
“The best kind of mind is that which minds its own business.”
“Education teaches a man how to speak, now how long or how often.”
“You can’t tell from a man’s clothes how much he makes: look at his wife.”
“You are not just an angel in disguise, but an angel with a purpose.”
“The best advice I could ever give is to take your own!”
“If the bad times are coming let them come, it's only something you have already done.”
“Authenticity and vulnerability are the new currency.”
“Don't come into my house and disrespect me and also disrespect the THRONE OF GOD...”
“Every Life Has a Color, In every color a meaning, define yours.”
“life is circular like a constant equation, a beginning with an undetermined end”
“Know we not where and when it started? know we not where it is, so far? know we not where we want to go with our lives? The answer to all this is yes, but our greatest error is not have known where and when to stop.”
“I declare & so I am.”
“How you got in, is the way to get out”
“Motivation is the fuel that drives the engine towards the destination of salvation and stagnation is the sludge that cripples to damnation.”
“An independent woman does not need a man who will spoil her with the finest jewels. All that she needs is a man who will show her the finer things in life.”
“the number of times you fall and rise, is not what makes you a man. But rather its the number of times you rise from a fallen state without any ones aid.”
“You have to Risk your love, to be loved”
“Do you know why a Lion & a Cockroach cannot live together? Different thinking.”
“Hate me, despise me and even ridicule me, i enjoy them all because its on in sorrows, troals and pains that i discover the genuis in me”
“Ask me the SIZE of my Heart and i'll tell you to go ask my MASTER!!!”
“if you look beyond every fooly, there is always some trait of wisdom, like wise in every wisdom fooly”
“i refuse to understand why he didn't want to share all his experiences with ME ...”
“Don't blow smoke up my tail, expecting me to fly away.”
“The journey through baseball is exactly parallel to the journey through life- learn from it. Cherish the time you have when you are there, that time will be gone sooner than you think. What will never be gone is what this game will teach you about who you really are, what you will do when you are facing the fire alone, and most importantly, what you will do when someone else needs you to pick them up.
- Coach Puorto”
“Crime is a disease, and the word of God is a cure. Stick to the word.”
“You only have power in negotiating when it's believed you're willing to lose something that's important.”
“Always encourage others to do their very best, for God may be giving you one big test.”
“Death makes everybody’s I.Q. the same.”
“The fool speaks when he has nothing to say.”
“Nobody loves the way he ought to, he loves the way he has to or is allowed to.”
“Always take quite time for yourself, or you will be useless for anyone else.”
“The end of your life is just the start of heaven or hell.”
“When raising your children, do the best you can, with love and respect to be a better woman or man.”
“Don’t ever give up, know there is someone out there for you, who will love, respect and admire you too.”
“Don’t ever in life feel you have lost hope, GOD didn’t place us here without ways to cope.”
“Life is too short to wake up with regrets. So love the people who treat you right. Pray for the ones who don't. Believe everything happens for a reason. If you get a second chance, grab it with both hands. If it changes your life, let it. Nobody said life would be easy, they just promised it would be worth it.”
“Each morning when you start your day, glance in the mirror, and simply say "This will be a marvellous Day!"”
“E = mc2 if the government doesn’t get its hands on it first.”
“Always listen closely to what children have to say, because really we learn more from them each day.”
“There is nothing so useless as doing efficiently that which should not be done at all.”
“There are two kinds of people: those who don’t do what they are told, and those who do only that.”
“He HOPES that by cutting me out of HIS LIFE i will have no REASON to THINK of HIM ...”
“A small man is like a small dog, always barking about what he can do.”
“i personally don't believe THAT GUILT is a USEFUL EMOTION ...”
“There are more people dead than alive; we all will be in the majority one day.”
“If you can get up when you are down, you don’t notice that everyone around you was down, for it is only when you are down you notice others are up.”
“More mistakes happen to the successful than to the man who has failed.”
“The failure is often someone who has tried the more difficult things in life and has the average results.”
“Never accept your life as it is now, always strive for improvement somehow.”
“Always treat your students as if their parents were sitting beside them in the classroom.”
“Most people don’t know how hard it is to be a success, says the successful failure.”
“If you love your children you will always have laughter in your life...”
“Don’t think that you are not good enough; others will think that for you.”
“Failure is nothing but wishes plus lack.”
“A good teacher has a love of teaching. A great teacher has a love of learning.”
“i will continue to RUN with this THORN in my foot ...”
“Your mother can see the greatness in you, why can’t you?”
“Failure yesterday, failure today, failure tomorrow, at least I am a success at being a pessimist.”
“The fool calls everyone around him a fool and everyone around the fool calls the fool a fool.”
“A RELATIONSHIP and a PERSONAL DREAM are not Mutually Exclusive ...”
“The tragedy is not that the fool talks but that we listen.”
“The only excuse for failure is “I am dead”.”
“Death to me is nothing but a caterpillar turning into a butterfly.”
“Lend money to a fool and you become the new fool.”
“The man who seeks your advice too often is probably looking for praise rather than information.”
“A friend in need is a friend indeed, but if he is really your friend then he should never be in need.”
“Friends are not perfect, sometimes they have funny ways, always laugh with them and not at them.”
“The person with no friends is not alone, he is very alone.”
“If you make God your best friend, you can’t go wrong.”
“I tell you the world is full of fools and only fools call each other fools.”
“If there is no crisis in your country, don’t worry, the government will create one.”
“Congress is where the liars and thieves meet.”
“Never take for granted one’s love for you, always strive to be honest, loving and true.”
“Every now and then the government must defend itself against itself.”
“I have a habit of breaking my habits.”
“If at first, the idea is not absurd, then there is no hope for it”
“Most of us can do more than we think but usually do less than we think we have.”
“Death is not a laughing matter, so laugh while you are alive.”
“To the person who thinks the world is full of fools, look in the mirror.”
“Don’t let your habit follow you to bed, or it will follow you to the grave.”
“A smile on your face may delay sorrow for today and tomorrow.”
“Your outside doesn’t determine your inside; it is your inside that controls the outside.”
“If you learn how to be happy when you are down, then you may never be down.”
“He that thinks he can afford to be negligent is not far from being poor”
“There is never the right time to get your goals started or your dreams realized. Just start now! No one will do it for you.”
“If a friend tells you “You can’t do that” and makes you believe it, then I believe you should get a new friend.”
“It is a mistake to assume that a man is worth a lot of money just because he has it.”
“More than anything else, I believe it's our decisions, not the conditions of our lives, that determine our destiny.”
“What you love and what you hate reveal what you are.”
“Follow the fear and the fear will set you free”
“Never lose faith in anyone you meet, for you may need it, when you feel defeat.”
“People have hidden agendas but some only to help you.”
“He who doesn’t go to temple in bad weather will go to hell when it is fair.”
“A happy man is one who wants what he has. An unhappy man gets what he wants but never stops wanting.”
“Some people will slap you on the back behind your face and then slap you in the face behind your back.”
“We always remember our faults when they are known to people.”
“If you love a woman from afar, you are not a wise man.”
“It is better to have what you can’t love than to love what you can’t have.”
“It is not what you have in life that counts, but what you are.”
“Happiness simply is someone who truly remains beside you whether you succeed or fail.”
“You are judged not by what you have, but by what you do with that you have.”
“It is not what you know that counts; it’s how you use what you know.”
“The greatest secret of life is to hear lessons and not teach them.”
“To be successful in love, one must know how to begin and when to stop.”
“If you don’t make mistakes, you are not wise; you are a fool.”
“Get the money honestly if you can; if not, any idea will do.”
“Be like a train, it gets to its destination on time by staying on the track.”
“Food is for taste. Happiness is taste of life.”
“You can’t make other people understand what you are trying to explain if you don’t understand it yourself.”
“Yesterday is gone, forget it; tomorrow isn’t here, don’t worry about it; today is here, use it.”
“"It's not luck but the actual seeking of knowledge to want to pursue something"-”
“Of course, things will go wrong. Move on! Don’t let the little snags affect the progress of your life.-RVM”
“Of course, things will go wrong. Move on! Don’t let the little snags affect the progress of your life.-RVM”
“Those who sleep both day and night do have empty evenings.”
“There are two things that corrupt a man: money and women. Working to avoid it is great wisdom.”
“True happiness is sharing of hearts.”
“You know your child is growing up when he starts looking at girls the same way he used to look at dessert.”
“Beware of a wicked man who is trying to be generous.”
“When your mind stops working, don’t forget to turn off the sound.”
“Don’t deceive yourself with you age, it is just a number.”
“If you want to hear the whole truth about yourself, make your neighbour angry.”
“Your dreams become illusion when you are working in the opposite with your shadow.”
“You can separate corruption from politics only when democracy becomes government of the people, for the people and by the people.”
“The word of a man is a man, so make your words worthwhile.”
“If your presence doesn’t make a difference, your words can never create effect.”
“The age of a man doesn’t determine his respect on earth.”
“Life is full of changes; if you don’t change, it will change you.”
“In every journey, there is a starting point; therefore, don’t forget where your journey started from.”
“Love is a dangerous weapon that kills anyone.”
“You can discover the true love of your wife only in the days of hunger.”
“If a woman so much loves money, she will not fail to share her secret with fools.”
“Love is the music that inspires our souls to dance.”
“If a man marries a wicked woman from a wicked family, certainly he will die the day he needs life.”
“Life is full of good times, but the ups and downs of life have made it so difficult to understand.”
“You can’t really know yourself until you discover how corrupt you are.”
“We have it in our power to begin the world over again”
“If you are working to succeed, bear it in mind that many people who aspired to be like you didn’t reach their destination.”
“People eat, but few can taste.”
“Those who are free from corruption are only those who haven’t been born yet.”
“A rainbow is not possible without a storm, similar to your success not being possible without adversity.”
“Those who make a difference...
Know they must be different!”
“How, when, and where you show up is the single most important factor in executing on your ideas.”
“Fear can be your friend if you’re fearless.”
“Belief breeds appreciation,but disbelief breeds depreciation.”
“The Challenge in Life is not to have the absence of Fear, but
to have the Courage to overcome it.-RVM”
“The Challenge in Life is not to have the absence of Fear, but
to have the Courage to overcome it.-RVM”
“If it's giving by heart, then it truly belongs to you.”
“There are three most important things to get success in life. The first is to work hard. The second is to work hard, and the third is to work hard.”
“The best time to learn to change the tyre of your life is before you have a flat one.”
“Live each day with the reality that mortality is finite. Only then can you fully absorb life's most precious moments. Like when a loved one smiles with excitement as they share a brief moment of their day. Inspiring you to set everything else aside, realizing that there is NOTHING more important at that very moment.~Nick Mansilla”
“pour me a glass of loyalty,and I will share a bottle of life with you.”
“Devour your reality to parent your dreams, in other words, follow your fantasy to concoct your real world, as the marrow of your nonpareil, is you.”
“The mind loves a reading body because, reading makes it function at it's peak.”
“Money comes and goes.., bt experience stays.., chase what "stays" then what comes won't "go" (FB.Mabandla 2014)”
“To me, it is funny when people say I was down. It is like when a child is trying to walk, the child must fall down, but it doesn’t mean that the child will never walk again. So if God has great plans for you, he has to teach you how to crawl before you learn how to walk. There is no successful businessman today that has not gone through the ups and downs.”
“Acknowledge and embrace every moment and every waking experience of your precious life.”
“Never be too happy for your dreams so far accomplished,but rather be too happy that you have more dreams that needs to be accomplished.”
“Unlimited thinking breeds unlimited wealth.”
“Time spent pursuing your dreams is never a waste of time.”
“Not every person can partake in the delicious meal called opportunity,because it comes in work clothes.”
“Never worry about what you will eat tomorrow,but rather worry about what you will eat today first,life is one day at a time.”
“I hate work,but I hate poverty more.But in other to defeat the monster called poverty,we must learn to love work more than we hate poverty.”
“Don’t just GO through life, GROW through it for Life comes to you only once . . . never to return! Climb the Ladder of Life, step by step.-RVM”
“Don’t just GO through life, GROW through it for Life comes to you only once . . . never to return! Climb the Ladder of Life, step by step.-RVM”
“A skilled teacher and a few good books can always cure ignorance.”
“A woman can be judged by her cooking, her dressing and her husband.”
“An educated man without ambition is as badly off as an ambitious man without education.”
“Are you angry because they lied or are you angry because you believed it?”
“Be an inspiration to others who have a negative outlook on life. Hold their hands and guide them toward the light.”
“Be an inspiration to others who have a negative outlook on life. Hold their hands and guide them toward the light.”
“Be careful with whom you share your secrets. Don’t forget your best friend has a best friend, and your best friend’s best friend – also has a best friend.”
“Beautiful words make beautiful face, beautiful manners make beautiful life.”
“Books are for only those who can live without television.”
“By doing; you inspire others to try, so keep doing.”
“By doing; you inspire others to try, so keep doing.”
“Do you wait until you have nothing to lose before you choose?”
“Does anyone ever lie to us more than we lie to ourselves?”
“Don’t allow problems of the past to clog your happiness. Work diligently to unravel yourself from your past history.”
“Don’t bury the past if you have intentions of visiting the grave on its anniversary.”
“Success comes to those Who not only dream but toil for it.”
“Don’t spend precious time pondering the past. Leave your old emotional baggage behind, embrace the present and celebrate your existence with a blast.”
“Few things are exact. You either have more than you need or need more than you have.”
“Hate is something we do when we are afraid to love.”
“I don’t want something tomorrow what I paid for yesterday.”
“I know what would you do if you were me but what would you do if you were you?”
“It is common to follow the path of others; it is courageous to create your own.”
“It is never life of death; life is here and death is on its way.”
“Condemnation Without Investigation Is The Height Of Ignorance”
“Life is precious and you are unique so never forget to remind yourself every day.”
“Life may not be a spectator sport but many spend time watching it go by.”
“Lower your phone bill; talk to God.”
“When Pandoras box is opened and all is revealed inside, some would quiver, some would shake while others would merely hide.
For though pandoras box holds no mysteries, theres one lonely mirror inside.”
“Money may not make you happy but it is sure lets you choose your anxieties.”
“Never have more faith in the world than you do in yourself.”
“Never judge a man by his relatives; he didn’t choose them.”
“I have always been delighted at the prospect of a new day, a fresh try, one more start, with perhaps a bit of magic waiting somewhere behind the morning...”
“No doesn't always mean no; sometimes it means not right now.”
“One of the major reasons for the downfall in many relationships is; too much “me” in “we”.”
“Solution is always simple once you have the technique.”
“It was, ... the most inspirational thing I've ever been around.”
“Speak well of your enemies; after all you made them.”
“Stop talking the moment when you find that you are not being heard.”
“Students should always be reminded that the best days for studying are days that end with the letter Y.”
“Never forget, small minds think alike as well.”
“The only thing money won’t buy is an item which is not for sale.”
“The only time you don’t have a chance is when you don’t take a chance.”
“To err is human; to forgive takes time.”
“"Success Demands Small Thinking in a Big Picture"
Jeton Lajqi”
“Usually the only time you will say something wrong is at the end of the conversation which means you have talked too long.”
“Whatever it is you would like to achieve needs a beginning; why not start today?”
“Why is it OK to kiss someone in the mouth but not OK to drink from the water bottle?”
“You don't value the house, until each brick is placed by you, so you don't value the business, until its made by you.”
“You can’t live the future until it becomes the present.”
“The Great Ones Adjust”
“You know you are old when you discover that your children are learning in history class what you studied in current events.”
“Great spirits have always encountered violent opposition from mediocre minds.”
“Yes, I think highly of myself because I don't deserve any less than what I think will suffice my priorities of self-respect.”
“It’s too late if you think it’s too late.”
“When I was going through a break up once, I bought myself pickled herrings and watched french musicals”
“Don't sit down and cry, Stand up and Try”
“Things will eventually change for the better,if we change our mentality”
“It is better to pursue your dreams for 50years & accomplish it,than never to pursue it at all,because of fear of time wastage.”
“Knowledge, Wisdom and Courage give birth to Confidence”
“No situation can be too difficult to defeat us,unless it defeats our mentality first.”
“To be the best in your field of play is not difficult,just add the spice called improvement in your menu everyday.”
“The Destination of Life is Death. Enjoy the Journey called Life before it is over.-RVM”
“The Destination of Life is Death. Enjoy the Journey called Life before it is over.-RVM”
“The unlived life is not worthy of death.”
“There are people in the world who sometimes waste their time trying to fix the thing which is not broken.”
“The trouble with people these days is that they want to reach the promised land without going through the wilderness.”
“The benefit of good thoughts in life is that even if they are forgotten they don't perish.”
“There is a difference in believeing in GOD and knowing him.
To believe is to doubt, to know is to accept his will.”
“One way to get rid of your weight is to leave it on your plate.”
“If you rest your chin on your hand when you think, it will help you keep your mouth shut.”
“If you don't know what to be thankful for, be thankful for all the troubles you haven't had yet.”
“To live in hearts we leave behind is not to die.”
“I am not telling you not to keep money but let not money keep you.”
“In order for someone to truly learn about something, they must emotionally experience it.”
“Don’t let sleeping dogs lie if they are lying on your way to success.”
“Beware of laugh at and laugh with; the only people who laugh at you are the ones who pretend to laugh with you.”
“Always learn to accept ups and downs of life, because it clearly does offer.”
“The greatest foolishness is to forget those who were there for you in times of need”
“I help people not because I will need something in return but because I care. Goodness is paint that they will use to paint me.”
“Is the life you are living a 'reel' or is it 'real'?”
“The only person you can allow to shape your life is your role model. The good thing about it is that you shape yourself on behalf of them and without their consent”
“Who ever says when one door shuts, another one always opens is wrong. Sometimes a door gets shut in your face just to see if you are dedicated enough to open it back up.”
“Love doesn't have to feel something, in order to do something.”
“Which will you choose: the easy or difficult path? You must trust, have faith and follow your heart in your direction; then and only then, will you discover the great treasures of life.”
“Paw of a Dawg”
“A mistake doesn’t make you a fool, but denying it surely makes you one.”
“Debt is born when you want to spend money before you have earned it.”
“Don’t trust in smile every time because evil always enters smiling.”
“Every relationship takes you either towards your dreams or away from them.”
“Everybody hurts somebody somewhere.”
“Everything you want in your future is already in your present.”
“Forgiveness is not the removal of your memory but the removal of your pain.”
“He who is not grateful for the good things he has won’t be happy with the things he wishes he had.”
“I know your I.Q. the moment when you open your mouth.”
“If you want my money, you have authorized me to examine how you spend yours.”
“Jealousy is the evidence that you haven’t discerned yet your own assignment.”
“Maturity is the ability to discern the ignorant without discussing them.”
“Never build your future around your past.”
“Never put in front of you what you don’t want inside you.”
“If you’re feeling down and need a pick up, do something nice for someone else. Now two people feel better!”
“Only a fool gives lectures on drowning during a drought.”
“People don’t desire their future, they decide their habits and their habits decide their future.”
“People rarely discuss the things that trouble them most.”
“Haters have only one problem with you,
your Success.”
“Something you are doing everyday is what your children will remember the rest of their lives.”
“Stress is the proof you are attempting something that God didn’t order you.”
“The day you get angry at your failures is the day you start winning.”
“The deadliest relationship is life is the person who destroys your hope.”
“The future is that time when you will wish you had done what you are not doing now.”
“The future of every man is determined by the woman he trusts.”
“The key to success is not seeing how much you can do, but doing one thing you love most with excellence.”
“Man has never made any material as resilient as the human spirit.”
“The quality of your work is the seed for the quality of your life.”
“The reward of the fool is that they make you feel as if you were God.”
“The weak can become strong in the presence of the bold.”
“Time waits for no one; so what are you waiting for?”
“Those who collect pebbles rarely climb mountains.”
“Those who don’t value their own words are not capable of valuing yours.”
“Trust those you think you can before you trust those you know you can’t.”
“Wealth is when you have a lot of something you love.”
“What attracts a man’s attention does not guarantee his respect.”
“Your happiness is determined by something you do, not something you know.”
“Ignorance is the only weapon that the devil can forcefully use against you.”
“God will never demand the thing you don’t have; he will always demand the thing you want to keep.”
“Jealousy is considering other person received the thing that you deserved.”
“The future is simply a servant to those who decide to master it.”
“The people who ask questions decide the quality of their conversation.”
“People see what you are before they hear what you are.”
“Being in the middle will never allow you to see the expand of you, less known what's around you. Being in the middle isn't enough for you.”
“When you notice an increase in what you consider bad behavior and a decrease in what you consider good behavior over a period of time, it's only because there's a tendency to reward bad behavior and punish or extinguish good behavior. That's the laws of human behavior...and they don't lie.”
“If there were no rules and laws, there wouldn't be crime, good and bad things. Everything would be perceived as normal.”
“The only reason bad things happen to you is because you're the only one who can handle it.But the only reason you can't is because you don't realize you can.”
“The only reason bad things happen to you is because you're the only one who can handle it.But the only reason you can't is because you don't realize you can.”
“If you are not ready to solve problems, you are not ready for relationships.”
“Love can commit murder,suicide,death,hatred,jealousy.But it can bring joy,care,color,a life partner,and a life filled with happiness”
“Don’t let the present pass in sorrow, hoping that the future will be full of Joy.-RVM”
“Don’t let the present pass in sorrow, hoping that the future will be full of Joy.-RVM”
“PRIDE IS A VIRUS TO SUCCESS SO TRY PREVENTING IT, BECAUSE THERE IS NO CURE TO IT”
“I dance because I can; by doing so I let go of who I was and become who I am.”
“Teaching should feel like breathing, your oxygen is knowledge”
“The pursuit of happiness is not where you end up.
It is not the fairytale happy ending.
The pursuit is only a dream.
For what you dream is reality.
Reality is your thoughts mirrored in front of you.
Dream you are already happy.
Think you are already happy.
And soon you find these moments...
That makes up your world...
Are better than any fairytale ending could possibly be.”
“Mother Nature gives birth to the cure everyday. When you stray away from the natural source you tend to get physically and spiritually sick.”
“There is nothing named as Failure, it is Only Feedback for your next actions.”
“No matter our deep we have been overwhelmed by our sense of despair today,there is still a vestige of hope for tomorrow”
“When a man is not wanted in the village, he is always accused of raising dust even when he falls in a pool of water.”
“Those who say that simple things don’t matter should ask a lion how he feels when a fly enters a nostril.”
“Those who pray for rain should be preparing to deal with thunder.”
“To have a successful team every player must want the same thing and dream the same dream.”
“The greatest crime you can commit in the desert is to find water and remain silent about it.”
“Put your troubles in your bag and drop them over the bridge on your way.”
“Perfect wife is the one who knows that no man is perfect.”
“Today comes with the opportunity to make tomorrow better,with the lessons learnt yesterday.”
“Marry a relative! If it goes wrong, it is at least in the family.”
“Love and war do not follow the ordinary rules of life.”
“Life is like a wheel. Now up, now down; we cannot always expect to be on top.”
“Life is a bank where everybody has deposited time but will never know the balance.”
“In marriage, sometimes you have to fight, just so you can learn more from each other.”
“If you want to keep the light in the marriage; you must also accept the shadows.”
“If you think that you must grow corn, then it would better be on good terms with monkeys.”
“Pursue a mentor. Everyday I see ambitious people being misguided by lost men and women.”
“Every plant teaches us. When the blossom dies, the fruit appears in it.”
“Don’t judge me just because you probably did the same thing.”
“Always keep in mind of those who show you encouragement when you are down.”
“A tree that allows birds to nest in it should never complain about its shred leaves.”
“A successful marriage depends upon two things: to find the right person and to be the right person.”
“A man starts growing old when his wishes turn into regrets.”
“A good reputation is a very easy thing to lose and a very hard thing to get.”
“you know why i never LIE?, its because i cant keep up with my own lies..>”
“No one is ever alone,this is falsified information appearing to be real. If God is really who he said he was to be, then alone is only the fear of being who God intended you to be. No one is ever alone.”
“If someone buys the same shoe that you have, it has nothing to do with you. Its the joy in you, that walks in the shoe that makes the shoe part of you.”
“To change the world you have to do two things: Find the will to do it and give. So far, if you care enough to read this, You're already halfway there.”
“All successful people know that the key to being successful is for their head to control their impulses. Operating from your heart is the same as being guided by a child.”
“Break the rules of imagination and go beyond your fantasy”
“A Silent man can speak more than a person on stage”
“To become successful there is no need of talent, but the inspiration”
“Never give up in the face of adversity. GOD is ust saying,
"not yet"”
“Venerating God does not means going to church every Sunday or Quoting the bible verse on you Facebook wall every day, to me it means keeping Christ in Christmas? Feed the hungry, clothe the naked ones, forgive the guilty, welcome the unwanted, care for the ill, love your enemies, and do unto others as you would have done unto you that is the true meaning of Christianity and not what we see or hear now a days – I pray to God my soul to keep if I should die”
“The people whom a person has truly inspired are somehow and somewhat invisibly wired with the things and thoughts with which he himself feels motivated a lot in his life.”
“RVM's Thought for the Day-"FAITH creates Energy that makes Success possible. DOUBT paralyses and makes the possible impossible."”
“In a Therapeutic Environment your last resort may be ; 'FIX ME'”
“The risk may not be worth the reward, but it's worth the experience.”
“When you give up to try, even the trial gives up on You”
“Planet Earth; Come, Live, See & Explore.”
“Fear and doubt are not natural emotions. Fear and doubt are learned traits and behaviors. How did you learn them?”
“Even the sky cries after realizing my resolve.”
“My name shall astonish the world.”
“When i got determined to do anything, it was then that i realised that there was nothing i could not do”
“There is something in every one of you that waits and listens for the sound of the genuine in yourself. It is the only true guide you will ever have. And if you cannot hear it, you will all of your life spend your days on the ends of strings that somebody else pulls.”
“Good grades will get you paid,
Good grades will get you laid.”
“ Music is like rain for the soul, washing away life's stains and leaving you feeling anew.”
“Never complain,for what you have is more than enough.”
“i love how we talk about FROM ANYTHING TO NOTHING>>>>”
“Life's greatest teacher is poverty.”
“A vision that has not been materialized can not be celebrated”
“Do what you believe in what you want to do. Dream it, do it, and be proud of yourself for following your heart and your dreams.”
“Make every day worth living. You never know when you will go. Life is a mysterious thing to come by. Remember to live your life to the fullest.”
“Don’t Hurry through life, don’t Worry through Life. Life is not just to Run, it’s also to have some Fun.-RVM”
“Don’t Hurry through life, don’t Worry through Life. Life is not just to Run, it’s also to have some Fun.-RVM”
“Woe unto you if man is the mirror you look unto,but rather look unto the mirror of your inner self.”
“If you thoroughly think through a thing,The how & The why will suddenly emerge from nowhere.”
“Fear not,put your ideas to test.”
“You can never claim to know what you think you know, until you know what others know about the same thing.”
“We are Lovers we Love the World with our Heart and Soul, But sometimes we have to Fight. Fight, Fight for Freedom.”
“I am dreaming of the day when people don’t believe something just because they are told, when faith doesn’t supersede science and logic, when people aren’t eager to blow themselves up for their beliefs, wondering what the world will be like when differences are accepted, when humans realize we are the only species that can settle disputes with words yet are so quick to go to war. Simply put, I'm dreaming of the day when all humans are peaceful, intellectual pot smokers.”
“If you give the poor wool today, God will give you a sheep tomorrow.”
“Do what YOU want to do because if you don’t, you are nothing but your own slave.-RVM”
“Do what YOU want to do because if you don’t, you are nothing but your own slave.-RVM”
“In climbing the ladder of life; be thankful to those who lift you up, but be ever grateful to those who pull you down for in doing so your willpower energises to ascend greater heights.”
“Never hate those who do not wish to help you; for it is destined that God puts only His people in the right places to help you reach your goals.”
“Love the World regardless of what happens.”
“People of the Earth, Be yourself and do what you do best because good or not people will always have negative comments about you.”
“People say it gets better but sometimes it doesn't, it just gets different, that's all."”
“Chances in life is like rain in a desert which does not come again and again.”
“Chances in life is like rain in a desert which does not come again and again.”
“See it, Do it, Own it, Love it!”
“Failure is an Evidence of Trial”
“There is no need to let the past impede your future, indeed.”
“We transform dreams into action”
“The struggle is real, but it's worth living for. Great minds begin with nothing”
“How more vulnerable it becomes,
The better you can see its strength.”
“If you have what Earth needs. Than do everything what it takes to get it to people.”
“People who know what is inside of you are people who are afraid of your strength.”
“Life is not about justice. It's about breaking the rules. You need to be stubborn and resistant.”
“Do What You Want...
Get What You Want...”
“Not Wait For Good Time
Make It Good”
“Not Wait For Good Time
Make It Good”
“If you think it's sad to ponder on past glory, just think about how sad it is to not have past glory.”
“Sometimes we must deny who we are so we may find who we were meant to become.”
“I want to be everything you love about me and nothing you don't.”
“No one was conceived by hate, but love, so love each other knowing this-even if the world is full of hate, we were conceived with love.”
“We are not what we have done, we are made up of what we are humbled by and what we overcome.”
“If you don't understand DIY (do-it-yourself) approach you may actually go with a twist ie: DIT (do-it-together)!”
“Life is only a disappointment when you allow the negative things keep you in self-pity. The more you are open to change and willingness to look at everything for greater good the more you will see your life be transformed.”
“Don't make someone else pay for your own insecurities.”
“We can't change what we have done or how we may have reacted but we can learn and change how we are.”
““It is a superstition to think that the fullest development of man is impossible without knowledge of art of reading and writing. While that knowledge undoubtedly adds grace to life, it is in no way indispensable for man's moral, physical or material growth.””
“If the bad times are coming let them come, it's only something you have already done.”
“No one can get to your head with out your approval.”
“No one can get to your head with out your approval.”
“Welcome every problem as an opportunity. Each moment is the great challenge, the best thing that ever happened to you . The more difficult the problem, the greater the challenge in working it out.”
“If you're going though Hell, don't stop, just keep moving”
“A million Knowledge & Wisdom dare not challenge one Imagination.”
“Imagination can see farther than both Knowledge & Wisdom can ever see.”
“The self is not something that one finds. It is something that one creates.”
“Humble beginnings turned into great accomplishments. It is always the little things in life that people do that count.”
“Do not get offended by little things such as religion, but get offended by things such as your Family, Feeling and who and what you stand up for.”
“Always be doing what you think you should”
“It's real inspiring. It's just a great thing.”
“Love gets tested by distance through separation, true love grows within it.”
“Inspiration always arrives unannounced.”
“It always seems impossible until its done.”
“People say that with love we can change this world. So why are we still using weapons to change it?”
“Every moment of Life is a Challenge to Choose. Some Win, some Lose.-RVM”
“The inner world of thoughts always control the outer world of events.”
“Never think lack,for the universe is too rich to accomodate your lacks.”
“People say that with love we can change this world. So why are we still using weapons to change it?”
“Credit is what enables people to pay 20% to 35% extra for that product which they probably don't need.”
“A poor person is one who doesn’t buy anything until he sees someone else buying it first.”
“A person who knows exactly how much everything costs in this world is one who can’t afford anything.”
“A poor person is one who always thinks that he is being judged by whatever he does.”
“It is very difficult to fly with an eagle if you are working with small birds.”
“God certainly gives everybody a second chance but the trouble is that He takes it back before giving.”
“A mother wants her daughter married well, but her sister doesn’t want her married better than she is.”
“When a deep injury is done us, we never recover until we forgive”
“A young woman married to an old man must behave like an old woman.”
“Beware of those who give you their watch and take your time from you in return.”
“Every woman is a girl, but not every girl is necessarily a lady.”
“Believing in life after death is not the question, but living your life before death; that matters.”
“To be rich is important, but to be rich when you are poor is very important.”
“A lot of men get women, but only few get wives.”
“Shame in a woman is known by her dress.”
““Get a grip before you fall,
Stumble before you get up,
RELY on others to help you,
BUT REFUSE TO STAY DOWN!’”
“If you are an ass and considers yourself a stag, then the time you will find your error is when you have to jump a ditch.”
“If you don’t give people what you have, certainly you wouldn’t give them the things you wish you had.”
“If you raise your daughter as a diamond, she will become a glass as a wife.”
“The worst use of time in a person’s life when he waits for the traffic lights changing from red into green!”
“Life is like a game of chess, sometimes we have to move backward in order to get a better step forward.”
“Spending money without thinking is like playing cards without knowing the rules.”
“If you buy something which you can’t pay for, you will sell what you willingly wouldn’t.”
“Fear works just like faith. It controls your thoughts and actions.”
“The best day for doing your best is the one that comes seven times a week.”
“Aqueles que apreciam posições de grande influência e de segurança financeira talvez achem que o custo de seguir Jesus é demasiado alto. Mas a submissão do eu está no próprio âmago do que significa ser Seu seguidor. Muitas vezes, essa realidade é expressa numa linguagem que parece exigente, mas Deus não tem outra maneira de nos salvar, a não ser separando-nos de tudo o que possa destruir-nos.34{Um Convite à Diferença 26.4}”
“It's not the price of the merchandise that makes me. It's the price of me that makes the merchandise.”
“In times like these the answer to seize when asked, "Who paid your ransom?" I look to the cross where my sin He did wash, Jesus arms outstretched on the transom”
“The attempts of man to stop Gods plan, when words of His promise are spoken
Each feeble attempt, yields a success that is rent, by the unshakeable truth He's invoking”
“Matters not how fast we get there, it just matters that we will get there regardless.”
“Like a feather floating through the wind with the buoyancy of a gazelle, thus i shall let my spirit glide through this evil world to eternity.”
“You should not expect what you do not deserve.”
“Peace: Make it happen. War: Forget it happened!”
“Make peace, even with the enemy.”
“If you think you are strong enough, You will stop pushing
If you think you are smart enough , You will stop learning
If you think you are loud enough, You will stop listening
If you think you are good enough , You will stop improving
The only thing that is stopping you is YOURSELF, always think that you want to be better than today then you will continue to push, learn, listen and improve.”
“A Moment of Patience Will Make a Lot of Difference.”
“Don’t be afraid of being Happy. You deserve to be Happy.-RVM”
“You can never get maturity from books. Maturity has to be nutured and groomed from your inside.”
“Make the Holy Spirit your companion; He is the secret we all have to seek in other to succeed in life.”
“Hidden treasures are embedded in every parent. Honor is that vital key to unlock these treasures. Among the children of men, only the wise ones discover this key.”
“In dedication, consistency, and focus lays one's greatest achievement.”
“Behind each step lays ever lasting opportunities to take another step.”
“Behind every failure or success comes life at its best.”
“Team work is the key to a joyful success only when there aren't any teams within the team.”
“A man who choses knowledge and wisdom over riches is a respectful man to life.”
“To see, is of the Eye, Whereas to look, is of the Heart”
“When I looked at my Problems with the Eye of my body, I see before me a great Mountain, but when i used the Eye of my mind, I before me a stepping stone to my Success”
“Youths who complain of unemployment, are those that make choices of Job, whereas those willing to do anything, never go Unemployed”
“If life is really too short, then why bring your past into your presence.”
“I Am Because He(God)IS,We Are Because He(God)Is”
“Count your blessings twice,just to make sure you didn't overlook anything.”
“Failing to try is one of the greatest failure in life”
“I am nature's greatest miracle,for there is non like me in thinking & in looks in life.”
“I am nature's greatest miracle,non has the same begining & non will have the same ending as I.”
“Those that have something to sell in life, are the only ones that can make life happy.”
“If you don't go hard don't go at all”
“Our minds are full of different ideas to change the world,but we limit our ability to let our minds expose those ideas because of the negative thoughts running through our minds”
“Show me a man without troubles and challenges in life and I will show you a man without a destiny and a future.”
“Rejoice when you face challenges in life, therein lies hidden your visa for a better tomorrow.”
“Except you give up your desire to give up in life, you may never reach your destiny.”
“Running from challenges in life shows how cowardly you are to enter into your destiny, face life headlong.”
“Life is as elusive as money... wisdom and understanding makes both easy.”
“Show me a man who is greedy for money and I will show you a man who desperately hates his soul. Therefore, contentment is priceless.”
“Don't be afraid of being laughed at for failing. Fear being sixty-five years-old and never trying.”
“Allow me to describe Jesus in one word... 'Flawless'.”
“Let me show you two ways to know someone loves you... One, by their fruits. Two, ask the Holy Spirit.”
“Never give in to the requests of people pursuing their selfish interests.”
““Redundancy is not a virtue; it is chance to fill the vacuum created””
“The mind is the power house that generates everything we currently possess in life and beyond, think big.”
“I never knew man was so powerful until I sort the endless possibilities in imaginations.”
“Focus, focus and keep your focus on a brighter future.”
“In hard times like this, look up to the heavens and say ' Lord please hold my hand and lead me through the storms of life'.”
“Selfishness is the mother of all strives in life... only love and keep loving people to maintain the balance.”
“Where others dread be bold enough to explore possibilities through the word of God.”
“Don't let other people kill your dreams,because no one can own your dreams .”
“Commitment is when the foundation of friendship solidifies the love you feel for that person.”
“Crises brings opportunity to the wise,but more crises to the foolish.”
“It only takes a tough mind to successfully graduate from the school called tough situation.”
“It only takes a mind that is mentally tough to go through & win over a tough situation.”
““If words could have expressed feelings; this world would not have been this hollow””
“The pessimist says opportunities are NO WHERE. The optimist says opportunities are NOW HERE. Both see the same words, but read it differently. That's Life!-RVM”
“The pessimist says opportunities are NO WHERE. The optimist says opportunities are NOW HERE. Both see the same words, but read it differently. That's Life!-RVM”
“Life is a cycle of happiness and sadness, a fusion of trials and tribulations; But just as how night evolves unto day, so too does the wheel turn your way.”
“The more vocal people become about your blessing is a testament in its self.”
“Labour postpone is labour prolonged.”
“Don’t care what people think about you. They don’t put food on your table or pay your bills.”
“Make TODAY so beautiful that your YESTERDAY is something you will smile about TOMORROW.-RVM”
“In this world of virtualization, even the life and relationships have become virtual. Actually what exit is nothing but mere reflection of an existence?”
“When you talk to me, never start your sentence with the words 'I can't' or 'You can't'. I live the way i live because 'I can'.”
“When you know the possibility of your dream to ever see the light of day is remote,then boldly announce your dreams to the world,for in doing so you are tapping into the ever powerful witness power to help bring your dreams to pass.”
“Life's irony;If you often experience repeated disappointment from people in life,it only shows providence may be passing a silent message to you that "your destiny is do it yourself & depend less on people.”
“You Win Some, You Lose Some, Its Part of the Game Called Life.”
“Fear the vulture and the vulture will come. Fear nothing and you are the vulture.”
“Every day is a good day, some are just a little better than others”
“Speak up, stand up, and keep correcting the false perceptions. Stay true to your heart's views and keep chanting for peace and justice.”
“Take care of your life force and always keep it streaming. Always be active and creative, and never ever stop dreaming.”
“Be different. Be original. Nobody will remember a specific flower in a garden filled with thousands of the same yellow flower, BUT they will remember the one that managed to change its color to purple.”
“Write and people will come to read. Write and people will heed to your words and share them with others. Not all may relate, but wait, and those that were meant to see it eventually will find it, for truth waits to be found. It searches for no one.”
“The best minds come from the most unexpected faces and places. There is no image for intelligence or genius. Genius is something that cannot be seen. It cannot be produced or manufactured. It is something that even the true genius thinks is unattainable. The genius recognizes he’s just a small pea in a sea of infinite atoms. Knowledge is as infinite as the universe. The man who claims to know all, only reveals to all -- that he really knows nothing.”
““Life is a journey to a known destination through unknown routes and what is achieved between this known and unknown is what we leave behind as our legacy””
“To those i may have wronged i ask forgiveness. For those i have helped, i wish i could have done more. To those i could not help, i ask for understanding. To those who helped me, I'm grateful for all you did, To those who did not help me, I understand and to those who have wronged me, judge me, lie on me, berate me, hate me, block me, from the bottom of my heart I forgive you. Stay bless my brothers and sisters”
“Prayer keeps us closer to God so keep on praying no matter what your circumstances be in life. Jehovah God answers prayers.”
“Familiarity is a deadly and crippling disease
Which, once it has invaded your life, will
Drain you of energy and creativity and leave
A monument of destruction behind...Fight it daily!”
“Expenditure equals income & effort equals reward.”
“If you live in Fear, Success will disappear”
“If you live in Fear, Success will disappear”
“Some people use language to express thought, some to conceal thought, and others instead of thoughts.”
“The busy man seems to have time for everything; the man who just thinks he is busy doesn’t have time for anything.”
“Most of the stress we bring on ourselves is because of bad habits and bad attitudes.”
“It is foolish to worry about something which is beyond your control – such as your life.”
“The person who lives for himself alone usually dies the same way.”
“What is the difference between real and imagination? Only that we don't strive hard enough to convert this imagination into reality”
“There would be fewer divorces if men gave as much loving attention to their wives as they do their cars and jobs.”
“It is hard to decide whether gambling is a means of getting something for nothing or nothing for something.”
“Rich people are often thought of as being dishonest if they were born without much money, and lazy if they were born into wealth.”
“On working environment, it's better to silent then finish the jobs clearly; rather than speaks loudly.”
“We often show off our command of language best when we say nothing.”
“The best time to end your speech is when you feel the listening is lessening.”
“Many divorces are caused by the marriage of two people who are in love with themselves.”
“Good work comes with great fun!”
“The trouble with life is that by the time you know how to play the game, you are too old to make the team.”
“We keep trying to find new ways to improve the quality of life – while neglecting the ways we already know.”
“Don’t call it education if it has not taught you life’s true values.”
“The trouble with teaching a child the value of money is you have to do it every week.”
“Many people would have been a tremendous success long ago if they had used advice they gave to others.”
“Formula for success: When you start a thing, finish it.”
“If we all said to people’s faces what we say behind their backs, society would be impossible.”
“Always expect great things to come to people with a strong work ethic, faith and integrity. For their blessings are not in the hands of man.”
“The cost of an education is high – but not as expensive as ignorance.”
“Thy friendship oft has made my heart to ache; do be my enemy - for friendship's sake”
“A habit is something a person hardly notices until it is too late to break.”
“Many individuals have, like uncut diamonds, shining qualities beneath a rough exterior.”
“Don’t worry what other people think about you. They are too busy worrying about what you think of them.”
“My Mum once Told me that Small minds Discuss People and Great
Minds Discuss Ideas, Dat Tym i was not Aware dat it was Quoted by "Great Eleanor" But for me Its My mum who inspires me EveryTym.
Lov u Mom”
“Happiness is the Highest Goal, Because Looking With-in is the Hardest Work.”
“You are unrepeatable. There is a magic about you that is all your own...”
“If we remember God always there would never be a bad time as the presence of God in our mind itself is an indication of fullness”
“Don't think you get nothing from quitting. You get guilt, anger, depression, confusion, etc... Never said they were feelings you wanted”
“Faith in GOD lets you trust others”
“Face it, lapses happen. Let the Lord pull you up by your bootstraps, dust you off and help you realize; by acknowledging the slip, you've already succeeded.”
“Make friends. It is impossible to lead a lonely life.”
“Career is not just for livelihood, it is about pursuing something I am passionate about.”
“TRUST IS A BLESSING TO HARNESS EFFORTS INTO ACCOMPLISHMENTS”
“Perfect is nothing, nothing is perfect”
“Don't be afraid of the bad time you ever have. God has given you the time to be free from worldly affairs to think beyond”
“Life will throw you curve balls, learn how to read the pitch.”
“GoD MaDe Us,We MaDe rElIgIoNs.
its like God UnItEs & We DiViDe.......”
“There are walls of Jericho in our lives which can only be destroyed by obeying His word, marching on his footsteps, blowing the trumpets about his glory and shouting about his soon coming.”
“When it rains it pours but our ability to fight through the storm will directly shape the person we become when the sun shines once again”
“Your smile is your best speech”
“Life's most encouraging phrase;This too shall pass.”
“We supposedly live in world where we are to embrace everyone's differences and accept everyones attributes. Yet, all too often we are depressed to customary ideals. Skip the notion of wordly ideals and grasp the reality that to God, you are forever distinguished.”
“Believe in your dream, for if you have dreamt it, haven’t you already been there once?”
“There is Beauty in the Art of Forgiveness”
“Positive Thoughts Create Positive Results. Believe”
“Let my name stand among those who are willing to bear ridicule and reproach for the truth's sake, and so earn some right to rejoice when the victory is won.”
“Happiness is only a few Positive thoughts Away...”
“There`s a time to cry, and a time to fly.”
“You don`t need to wear your daily stress on your face: meditate, apply a facial, drink plenty of water and rest, you will break out with a smile.”
“Rely on the ordinary virtues that intelligent, balanced human beings have relied
on for centuries common sense, thrift, realistic expectations, patience, and
perseverance.”
“An educated man who studies hammer but doesn’t know anything about an anvil is an uneducated man.”
“In war soldiers wear camouflage and take ambush to fight the enemy, they change positions to avoid target but in life one stands on the Rock of Ages to defeat the enemy, one does not change positions, one stands firm to avoid target.”
“Don’t complain of the soil in which you were born, but rather of the plant you are living with.”
“Our choices in life are like the water we drink, some drink, tape water , some borehole water, some distilled water, some water from the well and some spring water, at the end of it all what counts is what effect does that water have on your body.”
“The real purpose of education in a person’s life should be able to make him transform his envy into admiration.”
“An intelligent person is the one who is not afraid to agree with fools.”
“The true philosopher does not demonstrate; he shows and says nothing to those who don’t understand.”
“Society gives us one standard: 'The Unattainable.' Why strive for 'the unattainable' when I know I am part of the six and a half billion standards that already make the world inimitable?"”
“Societies that are disciplined to get what they want become dangerous when they do not get what they want.”
“It is better to ask many times to repeat the explanation than to claim to have understood incorrectly in haste.”
“I’m often struck by how a person can change your mind in very short time.”
“Never allow a person to change you, or you will lose yourself with your essence of an individual.”
“He who thanks life for what it gives him is the one who doesn’t expect everything from life.”
“There is a hope of recovery for an ignorant, while the stupid continues to show his idiot intelligence.”
“If someone gives you something for free, don’t be critical of it.”
“If you are unaware of something it does not mean such a thing never existed.Be humble enough to give a hearing after all knowledge is all about sharing.Also not to forget false knowledge is more dangerous when compared to ignorance.”
“War is a programme which is run in order to make peace; but the trouble is when it is run, it makes everything into pieces.”
“Giving is the business of the rich, and remember that a rich man may be under your hat.”
“Early in my life, every time I had to climb the ladder of success because my father never taught me to use the escalator.”
“We are a group of committed Individual, wanting to achieve excellence through cohesion and respect among members. This isn't about me.... It's About Us....”
“I want to write books that only those who read them claim they did.”
“Just make the things you know least about, the things you know most about.”
“The only thing you leave behind when you leave this world is the impression you leave on others.”
“If you think your brain is full, then you are a fool.”
“Your sub-conscious being is your magic being.”
“The universe is completely balanced and in perfect order.You will always be
compensated in full for everything you do.”
“Life's Irony;Atimes to solve a big problem, think small”
“truth be told!!! being true to oneself is the only thing that would set you at par.Only
then you will achieve true greatness!!!”
“To stuck in the comfort zone is to never find out what you are capable of.”
“A man’s character may be judged by how he gives you response to the same question asked by you the third time.”
“Even if you are not asked anything, you just have to speak something to make someone believe that you are still a fool.”
“You would realize how good you had it, if God allowed you to see how many people were trying to take it from you.”
“When i looked around, I see people looking around to, but when i looked up, He that is above looked down and blessed me”
“Love is the ability to see everything good in someone and be happy even if the fellow sees none in You”
“To be mentally unblind & undeaf means to see no impossibilities & hear no impossibilities.”
“When the wise encounters problems they run to imagination,but the foolish run to knowledge & wisdom.”
“Never belittle what you currently have,but rather say it is more than enough & see magic happen in your life.”
“MONEY HAS TRIGGERED THE PEACE OF MY MIND”
“Believe in something enough to push it, never mind if it works or not”
“Forgiving is Erasing One's Fault in Your Heart and Mind”
“Those who are loved, never have the heart to Love, whereas those willing to Love, never get the type of Love they desire”
“Dont look into your past when your stuck in the future regardless of what the present is holding.”
“We are all essentially operating systems. Without the proper updates we are not performing at our highest ability.”
“Friends don't compete with one another. Learn to share in each another’s joy.”
“There is an Alaadin magic lamp residing inside of you just waiting to carry out your desires.Desire gold,or silver or wood & he just gives it to you.”
“Inventory of our thoughts is the raw material We use to carry out planning & executing Tasks”
“Intellectual horse power is the One which runs enterprises more than Brake horse power”
“The problem with a lie is that the truth keeps getting in the way.”
“The real loser is someone who tries nothing and does nothing”
“What if Everyone realized that the only thing stopping us in this world From reaching all of our dreams were actually our self What if we stopped thinking of all the reasons why something won’t work And started thinking of all the reasons why it will work What if we realized the only crazy thing in this world was actually us not believing in What if”
“Imagine a world where people completely realize their full potential and maximize upon it, If people realized that nothing could stop them from reaching their dream goals except their self. It's crazy to think how much that would change the world and yet all it has to do with is for us to change our mindset on never giving up on what we want in life.”
“I feel like we could all change our outlook on life a little. Start thinking more positive and little less negative. Start being thankful for what we have rather than complaining about what we don't have. Start helping others in need rather than only caring about ourselves. Life would be a lot happier if we lived life this way”
“I love the night as it brings out the light in me.”
“I love the night as it brings out the light in me.”
“The recipe you need to succeed is different from someone Else's. discover who you are and what you need then you will know where to go and that road is leading you to success.”
“Allah, enlarge our own mistakes (in our eyes) so we try to fix them.”
“There are only two noble pursuits in life: knowledge and love.”
“Whatever you do, do it with passion and gusto, otherwise it may be a waste of time.”
“Beautiful faces are easy to find, they are everywhere. A good, kind heart on the other hand, that’s a true treasure to find.”
“All men dream; but not equally. Those who dream by night in the dusty recesses
of their minds awake to find that it was vanity; But dreamers of day are dangerous
men, that they may act their dreams with open eyes to make it possible.”
“In love swallow your pride but NEVER your dignity.”
“Nothing is impossible; it simply hasn’t been done yet.”
“They laughed and laughed. His eyes danced with hers in graceful steps, to a melody only they could hear. There was no doubt in my mind that it was beautiful music … Their tenderness with each other was something people much older than they could only hope to one day have.”
“"If you don't have the courage to walk alone others will not have the courage to walk with you."
http://www.theflightofambition.com/Quotes.aspx”
“Don’t be a victim of your past; be a fighter for your future.”
“You have no one’s standards to meet but your own; no one’s goals to achieve but your own. Now get started.”
“Crazy sometimes means ‘awesomeness that has yet to be recognized’.”
“choice isn’t about right or wrong, but choiceis about what you think it’s right and make it as your commitement. Not choice based on other see you as what you have. And choice itself will determine the change of another perspective during life to the positive or negative.”
“Smile because it's your Hater's weakness and your Lover's strength.”
“you can change your mood everyday but not with your feelings”
“The ordinary mind thinks;Go to school then work,but the extra-ordinary mind thinks;Venture out & succeed.”
“Imam Hussain is logic for all who listen, but we rarely do. We keep finding sins others own, and 'always' skip our own.”
“If you keep doing things that don't matter to you, you will not have time to do things that really do.-RVM”
“Loving yourself is easy when everyone else wants to love you. Loving yourself is hard when everyone else wants to hate you.”
“Problems are like Balloons. We let them unnecessarily blow up.-RVM”
“Do you know why you forgot the activities you've been through? would you be embarrassed if there are activities that you yourself not come, then your friends are talking about in a memories album ? because you don'tt play an important role for that activity, do important role from now !”
“To make it in life your beliefs must be consistent with your believe.”
“The future is always bright but the paths which lead to it are full of darkness......do not curse the darkness light some candles!”
“An eagle never falls in love with small plants and birds.”
“You can't change people but you can provide an alternative to how they see their life now.”
“That which is gained by the sacrifice of character should be called a loss.”
“There are occasions in a man’s life when it is undoubtedly better for him to make loss than gain.”
“They do not easily rise in the world whose talents are depressed by poverty.”
“Man is never less miserable than when he appears to be deprived of everything.”
“A man is newly married who tells his wife everything he knows.”
“Pay attention to whatever you say because a knot tied with your tongue can’t be undone with your teeth.”
“Don’t give your measure to anyone but your tailor.”
“While looking out the window, I see lots of cars that move in opposite directions. The hardest thing to grasp is our being on the same path. Just love is capable to unlock that mystery”
“He is miserable once who feels it, but twice who fears it before it comes.”
“A man who is proud of his money has rarely anything else to be proud of.”
“The work is either delayed or ill-done if money is paid beforehand.”
“A man who doesn’t know how to hold his tongue doesn’t know how to talk.”
“The more women look in their glasses, the less they look to their houses.”
“To prescribe medicine for the dead and to give advice to the old is the same thing.”
“If you don’t open the door to him who begs your alms, one day you will have to open it to the physician.”
“Little religion is better than no religion.. At least improving.. A lot of religion is better than little religion.. At least into it.. Proper religion is better than a lot of religion.. That's the best.”
“Love your enemy but don’t put your sword in his hands.”
“He who abuses others must not be particular about the answers he gets.”
“If you play with a fool at home he'll play with you in the market.”
“The man who holds the ladder at the bottom is frequently of more service than the man at the top.”
“Instead of trying to change people's attitudes, try inspiring them with your own”
“The essence of all breathe starts with the breathe of a thought.”
“We will pay a big price for an invention that will help us save time we don’t know what to do with.”
“people have lost the true meaning of writing to write is not just to write something and get paid for to write is a special talent that a few people have when you have a gift and you have a dream money and all those extra things don't matter living your dream and being a true writer is the best dream you can live”
“Doubt is like the tossing sea it does not care which way it turns!”
“The light of the path you take always seems to run into a dark spot along the way. When these times come have confidence to believe that there is a light within your heart to lead you the rest of the way.”
“When you decide to die out to self there is a whole new you that will come with healing in your wings to live the selfless life that was ordained for you from the beginning of the world.”
“I love Tuesdays because I can see them as my Terrific turnaround Tuesdays!”
“One's greatest strength is knowing ones weaknesses”
“Regarldless any deep shit you have gone through life aint gonna stop for you ;)”
“What's the point of a suicide if no one will remember you 10 years later, regardless that life goes on and that no one will give a fuck about your death, be happy, and enjoy your life :)”
“Don't surround yourself with someone who doubts everything and talks down about everyone but accomplishes nothing at all.”
“Try not to be one of the anyone, neither someone from the everybody, be a rare one from the special ones”
“Everything you are now is the raw material needed to produce the result of the fully awakened state.”
“Heartbeat is the foundation.”
“Seismic acquisition requires equivalent adherence.”
“As there are two sides to a coin, so do life; life is ugly and beautiful, life is bitter and sweet, life is rough and smooth, life is thick and thin, life is pain and gain, and life is cross and crown, our take on life and expectations determines what we get.”
“Our mind is so sensitive that, every single seed of thought you allow on it, will germinate and produce a fruit showcasing the same characteristics of the seed. Great thoughts lead to great decisions; great actions emanate from great decisions and great actions breeds great results and successes; and great successes is no doubt a sweet fulfillment to man’s soul. The life we live is a product of the celebrations of thoughts on our mind.”
“The mistake we all make, is that, those people we admire, also have their short comes but not visible to us because they are managing it well or we just don’t pay attention to it and don’t forget that a lot of people admires you too, but don’t know, you do not appreciate what you have got. Wake up friend, it is time to value, appreciate and develop yourself more, that is all your life requires.”
“The next time your in a conversation and you hear a so called “friend" of yours downing someone they associate with on a regular basis, reply, "Wow, the crazy part is this person thinks your their friend.”
“In fact, life of the virtual world are the ones who wearing mask.”
“-Its never to late to re:invent your life-
-Wake up each morning with a great expectation-
-Faith it till you make it-
-Your birth is evidence you were born for a reason-
-Its amazing what you can achieve,when you believe-”
“-Life will knock you down,but don't stay out-”
“You could have someone stand beside you and experience a whole other reality at the very same time looking at the very same thing as you! One will cry and the other laugh!
Which leads me to the following conclusion, you create your own REALITY, FUTURE and TRUTH!
Thus, if I was you... I would really watch my words and thoughts, as you may just have to face exactly that.”
“-Live your life-”
“The greatest power is the power to inspire.”
“If you are failing to try, you are succeeding to fail.”
“A Book A Day, Can Make A Man Obey.. A Book A Night, Can Make A Man Bright.”
“Leadership is more than influence. It is inspiration.”
“See the difference. Vote. Make a difference!”
“Love is all you need, the rest is just noise”
“Love is when your Heart and Mind is at peace. Because most of the time they contrast each other.”
“The Highest High you can have is to Live, Every day Every moment Every minute is something to be valued. Wake up, Stand up and just by standing i know I've Already Won...”
“One of the most difficult concepts for people to accept is that truth and reality often comes in layers”
“Leave yourself open to the universe by closing the door of expectation.”
“I am not my memories. I am my dreams.”
“Anyone can exist. Most fools do. It takes guts to truly Live.-RVM”
“Anyone can exist. Most fools do. It takes guts to truly Live.-RVM”
“You'll never achieve anything until you stop looking up at the sky for God and start looking within.”
“Courage to start and willingness to keep everlasting at it are the requisites for
success.”
“Agar baap ko ullu banaoge toh khud ullu ke patthe kehlaoge!”
“In to-days world age doesn't matter,what is lacking is common sense”
“You may legally become an adult at a certain age but the moment you truly become an adult is the moment you realize you want things for those you love and admire more than you want things for yourself.”
“Eugene McCarthy is definitely an inspiration to me as a Democrat and as someone going to the university. It is definitely important to me.”
“Charity in any and all forms and fashions is a wonderful thing but charity is only pure when the only person that knows you have done something charitable is yourself.”
“Charity in any and all forms and fashions is a wonderful thing but charity is only pure when the only person that knows you have done something charitable is yourself.”
“A single match can start a fire”
“The highest mountain ever climbed was built within the mind of men whom toiled their lives away on what other people think and say”
“Don't stop living for others.. at least you have a worthy reason to live..”
“I remember someone said to me it's not good to be too optimistic and i see that statement belongs to those who cannot visualize where their dreams leads them and are not ready to give it, all they have to make their dreams come true. Hey friend, keep the fire inside of you burning and do everything you can to disappoint the thoughts of those who see your dreams as chasing after the wind.”
“Every man has been given his/her gifts, talents and potentials to stylishly position him/herself, a town set on a hill that cannot be hidden and a lamp that gives light to everyone in the house. Obscurity and mediocrity are tasteless meals, don't buy it!”
“Right or Wrong does NOT exist, there is only realities, there is yours, his, hers and mine and THAT IS IT!”
“Your thoughts are never real to another person,but only real to you the thinker.”
“It is possible for the earth to bow down before thee,if thou takest control of thy sub-conscious being.”
“To think aloud is to dramatise your dreams.”
“I always hear, read, observe and try to understand all view points, I even focus on trying to find truths in both (which is usually valid anyway)... Nothing is really BLACK or WHITE, there is always the golden middle way and it's this SILENCE in the noise that has always lead me back to my own interpretation of things and provided me with the needed satisfaction.”
“Be Grateful you are not like a rock that has no Choice. The Sun Shines on it,the Waves Splash at it. You have a Choice to move and to make your Dreams come true.-RVM”
“In every line of work there is someone at the top, except there is none greater than God. Trust in his divine purpose regardless of earthly success, otherwise all that is beneath will crumble below and you won’t achieve much greater than your stresses.”
“A woman of integrity is a vibrant heart full of love, it bleeds a little the thought of any distrust because there is no room for distrust in this heart of hers.”
“Passion is the fuel that ignites the soul.”
“Five things I know about shoes: they always go to the highest bidder, they lure you in, they embarrass you at the right time, they don't keep secrets, and they eventually betray you.”
“They say that time heals all wounds. Time never stops. Which means eventually, all wounds can be healed.”
“I asked the world to let me have all the fun while I was young. I became old, and realized it wasn't fun that I really wanted. I just wanted time from the world, to do and be something the world would want.”
“Women have the most important power in the universe. Childbirth. It birthed the Savior.”
“If you really want to save energy, start by shutting your mouth.”
“Inspiration is fleeting. When you find inspiration, capture it by taking action. Do something to fulfill your inspiration. Even if you make just one move, it is something that can change your life.”
“Celebrate Life. Unless you celebrate each day of Life, you are not truly Living. Let each day be a Festival of Joy.-RVM”
“Celebrate Life. Unless you celebrate each day of Life, you are not truly Living. Let each day be a Festival of Joy.-RVM”
“When we can be loving and truthful with ourselves...we can then be fully loving and truthful with others.”
“When death finds you at gunpoint, you should know when you shall leave.”
“Digital by birth, authentic by music”
“the spiritual healing by the fine arts starts as we recognize ourselves in others”
“I am not perfect. Are you? Let us accept the fact that nobody is perfect. Let us learn to accept our imperfections as well as those of others.-RVM”
“you said you wanted money, but you cannot buy time to spend it in”
“Persistence pays even when all others give up.”
“They said many things about me, some "good things" and some "bad things" but the best part was, topic was me all the time!”
“Better learn to earn rather than crave to save”
“Be thankful that you are on your feet. There are people who can't even walk down the street.-RVM”
“Be thankful that you are on your feet. There are people who can't even walk down the street.-RVM”
“I know of only one duty, and that is to love”
“Be good and be good at being good”
“If you want to create a brand, create an experience you can repeat.”
“Brands are built through the experiences we create.”
“People become successful because they get the important things done. They
become successful by producing high quality work, and delivering it on time.
They become successful because they dot their "i's" and cross their "t's." They
become successful by doing the things they're supposed to do, doing them well,
and getting them done on time! Successful people get results!”
“Tomorrow means another chance, but it doesn't necessarily mean that you have irreversibly failed with your attempts today. Your attempt may fail, but never fail to make an attempt!”
“Love is the victory of heart on mind.”
“The love which is not cooled down by mind will evaporate.”
“Reasonable love is a part of life, while crazy love conquests the whole life.”
“Divine love arises from the union of love with the feeling of sacredness.”
“Love removes the borders between reality and imagination.”
“Every love has four seasons.”
“People always ask themselves what are the answers, and within the answer that enable them to grow or to understand. I however, like to think differently. When you searching answers, you don't look for answers, rather you should look for the right question for yourself. For example, Am I worthtless? Yes, I am. but the question you should be asking is this 'What can I do to make myself worthy?' Think differently and surely, you will find yourself.”
“Mind separates, while love unites.”
“Beloved is the mirror that reflects the ideal that the lover created within himself.”
“Love is the body’s invasion by another spirit.”
“Anybody can laugh in Joy, but the bold ones also smile in pain…knowing that pain is just like a zooming train, that will soon pass by.-RVM”
“Anybody can laugh in Joy, but the bold ones also smile in pain…knowing that pain is just like a zooming train, that will soon pass by.-RVM”
“Follow your Dreams till your Dreams start Following you”
“Confront your comfort and challenge your change.”
“Life is a window of boundless opportunities.”
“Always be at your strongest, never at your wrongest.”
“Life is not all about being a follower, because you were brought into this world so that you can make something great out of your life, even during life's most toughest situations. Be you, and live your life the best way you can.”
“Don't be amongst those trying to build a better Tomorrow. We can have a better tomorrow only if our Today is better than our Yesterday.-RVM”
“Small minds want you to stay small with them. When you reach for higher grounds, they work hard to bring you back.”
“Life is a great big, fat reward!!! Cherish it!, no matter what.”
“The utmost truth to learning a musical technique lies within formal study, dedication, thorough research, experience, and practice.”
“Always make the best out of the bad reeds.”
“Keep on your ground and make the world go round.”
“The room called improvement is life's biggest,it is so large that it has no limit.”
“Human beings are like crops,for we all have different destinies.”
“You miss 100% of the shots you didn't take.”
“Minus God is the hate of self that invites the hate of others to maximize the hate of self.”
“If I am able to make you smile. Then you will always make my day.”
“Dont be afraid to stand for what you believe
in, even if that means standing alone,it doesn't matter.”
“The beliefs of a miniature person is greater than the strenght of a giant.”
“Never desire to pursue wealth in life,but rather desire to pursue big dreams,for big dreams produces big wealth.”
“Until there is enough perspiration inside your inspiration,your aspirations will only be mere day dreaming.”
“Great wealth is a bye-product of big dreams.”
“The foolish pursue wealth,but the wise pursue dreams.”
“I am the Richest man on earth because I am the Happiest man on earth. After all, isn’t Happiness the Greatest Wealth in Life?-RVM”
“I am the Richest man on earth because I am the Happiest man on earth. After all, isn’t Happiness the Greatest Wealth in Life?-RVM”
“We can only experience a new dawn in our lives if there is a new dawn in our awareness & thinking.”
“Before you try to get the things that you want, make sure that you're ready to have them first.”
“Everyone of us is like a grain of soil in a vase, put to produce the best out of the least, when the owner plants a seed in the vase, and waters it, some grains melt, and lose their shape,some grains join others and stick together,some grains stay solid like a rock, some retain the water and feed the plant with nutrients, some protect the plant's roots as it grows, the grains which share their nutrients produce a beautiful plant which is shared by the world and gives glory to the owner.”
“What God intends to do with you, is not for you to foresee.”
“I pity the Gods, I feel so sorry for them. A common God has infinity power, has knowledge of emotions but never felt them nor does the God has the ability to grow stronger or weaker. Unlike humans, we have the different kind of power. We can push limits up no matter how high it can get, we can feel love and hate, we can even learn and explore. But to already know it all must be so damn boring. Gods will never understand us, will never understand how lucky we are.”
“Surface creativity, even if it buries you.”
“To avoid drama and the crowd, you must avoid drama and the crowd.”
“Being alive is my destiny, dying just a destination.”
“We shall listen with the heart, to hear the silence of peace.
We shall see with the heart, only then the invisible will be exposed.”
“If nothing goes right Take left”
“For your daily smile score, the mirror will always give an upvote”
“Nothing inspires me more profoundly than observing the journey of another human soul”
“Don't conform to the expections of others, instead choose to live your truly inspirational life”
“Sunrise symbolizes a whole new day, a fresh start with everything. Sunset on the other hand, tells us that the day is finally over. Regardless of how bad or good it went, we still get to start over the next sunrise. Either we make the next one better or worse than the last one.”
“Don't falter if you have failed doing what you believe in. You can fail many times as you need to achieve but once you do succeed, you can only succeed once.”
“It doesn’t cost much to be Happy if the currency of your heart is the blowing of the breeze and the swaying of the trees.-RVM”
“In life you must be ready & willing to give your all for all that you believe in.”
“Life's Irony;The longer you dine with the monster called poverty,the wiser you become.”
“You only have this world to live your dreams & not in another world.”
“The question is NOT whether God will grant what you ask for or not; it's whether you are READY or NOT. Saying AMEN signals your readiness to receive His blessings today. AMEN!”
“Life isn't determined by the opinions of others, but by the choices we make in those opinions.”
“Don't expect. Ask, Allow or Accept”
“I have to keep working on my faults because one day I'll be fixed!”
“By Christ alone, once redeemed, eternally free.”
“It is strange - people chase and hoard money, and even cheat the world to become rich only to finally leave it all behind.-RVM”
“It is strange - people chase and hoard money, and even cheat the world to become rich only to finally leave it all behind.-RVM”
“Belief is greater than strenght.”
“Life's Irony;When you have bold dreams,it further emboldens your spirit.”
“The further the LIGHT, the darker it gets around you. But the closer you are to it, the brighter and safer it feels.”
“They say swag is for boys and class is for men.
Well then - naked is for me.”
“At the end of the day take time to let go and wash away anything unnecessary that may weigh you down, because tomorrow is a gift and you have to empty your hands of the heavy useless junk that you are carrying in order to accept it... but accepting it is the first step now you have to seize this gift and make it better than the days or weeks prior. Every day is a gift and every gift is as great as you make it.”
“I succeed on my own personal motivation, dedication, and commitment. My
mindset is: If I'm not out there training, someone else is.”
“Digital by birth, authentic by style”
“Like a feather in the air, like a leaf in the sea, I surrender to Thee, I surrender to Thee.-RVM”
“True religion is the life we lead, not the creed we profess.”
“Whatever you desire to accomplish in life,do it quickly,for after today you will have one day less to live.”
“Anywhere you see or hear about success in life,know for sure that somebody has believed in something.”
“Your desires must be constantly rehearsed in your mind for your mind to fully accept it as a fact,before it can ever be accomplished.”
“Don’t just talk about it, go out there and do it. Don’t just meditate about it, go out there and
create it. Don’t just pray about it go out there and take action; participate in the answering of
your own prayer. Get out there and live it.”
“The Truth Preserves Your Youth.”
“Without the seed called humble beginning,there will be no fruit called giant ending.”
“If we daily feed on the meal called belief,we shall perform great feat in life that shall then become believable to man.”
“One of the things that I've come to deeply appreciate about Christianity is it's uncanny ability to pinpoint the truth. And it's the very unpopular truth. Let me tell you a secret: I love being on the side of the undesired truth.”
“Destiny didn't want it, the Universe didn't want it, but you wanted it...”
“Wisdom is only intelligence perfumed with compassion.”
“Wisdom = Intelligence + Compassion”
“Your complaints, your drama, your victim mentality, your whining, your blaming, and all of your excuses have NEVER gotten you even a single step closer to your goals or dreams. Let go of your nonsense. Let go of the delusion that you DESERVE better and go EARN it! Today is a new day!”
“Freedom is not a circumstance, which is surrounding you, but grows in your heart and mind.”
“Silence is where our heart is at peace. The only place where we are able to hear the truth of it all.”
“At some point in our existence, we all wanted things in our lives as it is and we didn't want it to change. But change is inevitable, there's nothing we could do to stop it. So, we might as well just embrace it and change for the greater good.”
“Life is like a hammer, it can either break you or shape you into something magnificent.”
“Life is like an Hourglass. The grains of sand drop one by one and then it’s all over. Live before you die.-RVM”
“The moment you think you are going to fail and you decide to quit is the moment you accept that you are looser”
“Idioms and proverbs are meant to help us to deal with our own problems, but others use them as tool to destroy their own lives”
“If you want to live a better life in this world, surround yourself with better people. If you can't find them, make sure you play their role”
“Always set a goal for every task you want to perform. It is the best way of making your work easy.”
“In the strength of what I voice over is nothing in comparison to the power of my pen.”
“Being rejected by the world doesn't mean you are a looser. It is the way in which one must use the opportunity to create a better relationship with the world”
“just when your ready to give up on God he does the unthinkable there's many reasons why you shouldn't give up on God but every time you doubt him he shows you time after time why you got to have faith and believe”
“Today i saw the shadow of me in my shadow
Which i had lost long ago.”
“Spend your time doing something you love and ensure you are ready for the outcomes.”
“1.“All my life I have been learning how to talk it is the time to start learning how to listen””
“Whenever your girl is acting even a little bit different, don't get straight to having doubts just yet. Go talk it over, maybe she's facing some problems and she needs someone who could help her, not someone who would just cause another one. Relationship is a team, act like you're in it!.”
“Naturally, every child is a born free. We start to experience problems and certainty as we grow up.”
“Life is not a Race, but we still continue the Chase and try to be an Ace. It’s time to get out of this Maze and Truly Live with Grace.-RVM”
“Life is not a Race, but we still continue the Chase and try to be an Ace. It’s time to get out of this Maze and Truly Live with Grace.-RVM”
“Kindness heals, kindness saves, kindness does, Kindness never asks why.”
“A wise man knows what he knows he does not.”
“An idle mind is not a good motivation for success.”
“Self motivation is the best motivation of all time.”
“Tact is the ability to describe others as they see themselves.”
“If you don't stand up for yourself, no one will do that for you, and that explains why you have got your own legs.”
“Speaking English fluently doesn't necessarily mean that you are intelligent and i think a lot of people mistake that.”
“Never give up even if everything that you have hoped for seems to be falling apart, just stay strong and eventually you will make it.”
“not with an iron fist but with a helping hand”
“At least be as perfect as your job application letter.”
“One difference between destiny and purpose is that, 'Destiny is somewhere forward while purpose is with you_in the heart!'”
“The truth in you will destroy the lie in you. The two can't be friends.”
“As well as my day goes today, it will never go as well as the day Jesus Christ died for me.”
“If it seems too good to be true, why not make it so and make it true?”
“Most of us just live and die. Only a few of us have the gift to live on.”
“Most of us just live and die. Only a few of us have the gift to live on.”
“Ukrania féha barcha sex..”
“Never give up what you were destined to do.”
“You may not always be happy, but you'll surely find happiness.”
“You have to be PATIENT, the BEST things in LIFE, takes TIME!!!”
“Do not be led by those who follow.”
“I judge others. I'm judging myself.”
“People don't really change they just chose a different path.”
“Imagining is the birth of a future.”
“Fake people always seem like they’re winning because they’re always lying.”
“Your life could be different, if you would decide that it will.”
“Do not be led by those who follow.”
“When we let our Greed become our Need, we can never be happy indeed!-RVM”
“People may not be lovable, but they're striving.”
“There is something inside that nothing.”
“The person who sends out positive thoughts activates the world around him positively and draws back to himself positive results.”
“Never allow your present situation to determine the kind of dreams to dream.”
“As we express our gratitude, we must not forget that the highest appreciation is
not to utter words, but to live by them.”
“Nothing ever & shall ever exist, until something boldly comes out of nothing.”
“any decisions you make will always be followed by the one you could've made”
“Don't count down the days, but instead make every day count.”
“don't feel sorry for what you don't have feel sorry for what others have but don't know the worth of it”
“The past ruins the present to destroy the future. Take charge of the NOW.-RVM”
““A hug is a kiss of the heart””
“They say.."When one door closes, another one opens." But I beg to differ. I believe that it has been opened all along, we just went to the wrong one. There's always a choice in everything, you just gotta pick the right one.”
“I cannot change the past but the present is my opportunity to change the future”
“Success is the only teacher that can fail the student called failure.”
““Many women's goal is to be the center of attention, when they get fame and catch men eyes its when they get their satisfaction. they were built by men and they can be broken by men. As for me, my goal is to be successful, when i achieve as much as i can and find myself on the top looking at a bright future, its when i get my satisfaction, its when i know no man can break me because i was self-made not man-made.””
“If you never appreciate other people's success,success in turn will never appreciate to dwell in your domain.”
“Rather than envy the successfull,be motivated by their success.”
“Think small & make a small dream come true,but think big & make a big dream come true.”
“To daily feed on the menu called knowledge is 10x better than to feed on the menu called wealth.”
“All of life's visible wealth resides inside invisible knowledge.”
“A good person says : I used to be bad
. But a better person says : I used to be more well-mannered”
“The opportunity to truly Live doesn't wait. Either We USE it or We LOSE it.-RVM”
“The opportunity to truly Live doesn't wait. Either We USE it or We LOSE it.-RVM”
“Be who you are and what you are; for if you think of what others think of you, you will become what others think of you. Rather, be what you want to be!-RVM”
“Be who you are and what you are; for if you think of what others think of you, you will become what others think of you. Rather, be what you want to be!-RVM”
“Knowledge is greater than wealth,for knowledge brings wealth.”
“The power is available to you to accomplish a small goal,nor a big goal.”
“Hypocrites who say they are your friends, are the ones who adore moving their jaws and vomiting words and noticing all your flaws. True friends are the ones who stick with you, even if the truth you speak is bitter. Instead of vomiting words, they listen, and instead of making such a fuss about all your flaws, they help you to the very best of their ability.”
“Mediocrity is common. It's so easy to fit in. Have enough courage to breakaway and set sail on something greater.”
“Its one thing to forsake sin and quiet another to be forsaken by sin because to abstain from sin when we no longer have the means to sin, is to be forsaken by sin and not that we forsake it”
“Coaches didn't know how to talk to me. They gave up in me, told me I should just quit. They didn't call my name, told me it was over... but I've been deaf since I was three, so I didn't listen.”
“Love is a tragedy for those who feel it, and a blessing for those who live it.”
“The wings of an Angel wither and rot. Who would care for the fallen for it's people had exiled it? No one.”
“Your person is a message to the world. Be attractive, true and inspiring!”
“The greatest people made the greatest sacrifices, suffered the greatest hardships and made the greatest changes”
“Keep your Grass cut so you can see the snakes and serpents when they come creeping in your yard - Dion T. Chapman”
“Deep, abiding joy is available to anyone who learns the secret of pursuing every
task with energy and dedication, as though it were a calling.”
“Don't try to live forever - You can't! But you can do things that will live forever.-RVM”
“sometimes it's best to stop thinking about what you don't have and think about what you do have.”
“Everybody has to die. Why cry, when you have wings to fly!-RVM”
“it's good to be ahead or to think ahead if you don't you will just be another statistic”
“Fear is the cousin of shame. The moment you allowed fear to visit was the moment it asked shame to stay.”
“How can you get what you want if you do not know what you are seeking?-RVM”
“How can you get what you want if you do not know what you are seeking?-RVM”
“If your actions inspire others to dream more, learn more, do more and become more, you are a leader.”
“One good idea begeth another.”
“No menu taste sweeter like an idea whose season is ripe.”
“Commit your thoughts into workable plans & providence will always be there to see you through.”
“on your way to success you have to pass through failure ,so when you reach at failure don't make it your destination press on till you reach at success.”
“Oh! Rash man, how do you intend hearing from the Spirit?”
“The villain may win the fight, but the hero will never lose the war.”
“NEVER underestimate the importance of being polite.. EVERYONE is worthy of basic kindness.”
“to love you must love yourself but cherish the person who made you feel loved”
“It starts with Dreams—Dreams create Desires, Desires create Determination, which leads us to our Destiny.-RVM”
“It is truly a waste when you continually try to keep your plate as full as others and you are not at all the least bit hungry.”
“A heart that is full of love, integrity, honor and respect is a sure path to prosperity”
“You flirt with your team on their good day, I romance mine on their bad.”
“Crowd cheers for you the day you win, fans just cheer for your effort.”
“If we have confidence that life will yield good dividend for us,it surely will.”
“Let it go my love my truest, let it sail on silver wings. Life's a twinkling that's for certain, but it's such a fine thing. There's a gathering of spirits. There's a festival of friends. And we'll take up where we left off, when we all meet again.”
“another day another lesson learned tomorrow will bring the exact same.”
“Our culture reasons that because we fell there is not enough time, we should increase our pace, multitask, and fit more into our already overbooked days. But even though it is counterintuitive to popular wisdom, perhaps the more effective response to the limits of time is to live more fully in the moment, to savor it and expand it. - From A Permeable Life: Poems and Essays”
“A Permeable Life is about what presses out from the heart, what comes in at a slant and what shimmers below the surface of things. To live permeably is to be open-hearted and audacious, to risk showing up as our truest self, and embracing a willingness to be astonished. From A Permeable Life: Poems and Essays”
“The most beautiful thing about writing songs is when something really pisses you off and you get it out of your head into a song. Moreover when you see that people really love it. It's such a liberating feeling.”
“Forget past mistakes. Forget failures. Forget everything except what you're going to do now and do it.”
“Don't act like what you see about them, but act what they think about you.”
“I was Raised Round Junkies,Drunkies and real sluts Holding a poor mans rifle when there is beef not given a fuck!!”
“All lives are destined to decease, but our actions are set to reside. Let us live with meaningful life and die with honors.”
“The amount of resistance to something is equal to the potential for gain.”
“Living without meaning is not Life, it is Death. It is like being in the graveyard except that you still have breath.-RVM”
“All you can do is try your best and guide the rest”
“Think positively to make the world a positive place today.”
“Life's irony;Even if you cannot shine like the sun,then opt for the moonshine.”
“To endure a great defeat, is in itself, a victory.”
“Some people keep wandering aimlessly from womb to tomb. They seek nothing and achieve nothing.-RVM”
“Some people keep wandering aimlessly from womb to tomb. They seek nothing and achieve nothing.-RVM”
“Rather than say this money will not be enough,be grateful & see with your inner eyes & say it is more than enough.”
“Life's Irony;As wise as a fool & as foolish as the wise.”
“The problem;Tomorrow is too far to quickly manifest itself,& The Solution;Time flies for tomorrow is just around the corner,so be prepared.”
“You may not be able to change the world, but you can always change somones world.”
“"starve"
Ana said,
and so she did.
"live"
The angel said,
and so she did.”
“"starve"
Ana said,
and so she did.
"live"
The angel said,
and so she did.”
“If life does not feel like a journey, that is a sign you have stayed for too long at a certain point along your journey.”
“Your mental income and expenditure dictates your degree of stress. Don't bankrupt yourself with thinking too much.”
“Burning desire to be or do something gives us staying power - a reason to get up every morning or to pick ourselves up and start in again after a disappointment”
“If you are waiting to feel motivated you are wasting your potential. That in itself should aggravate you enough to do something.”
“If you are waiting to feel motivated you are wasting your potential. That in itself should aggravate you enough to do something.”
“Our greatest opportunity is always today. Our greatest regret is always yesterday. Our greatest history is always tomorrow.”
“When life hands you a bunch of sour grapes, turn them into a magnum of the finest champagne - Hal Chantker”
“You either choose the conditions for your psychology or you passively allow the conditions to choose your psychology.”
“We are never more alive but when our thoughts, actions and feelings are in resonance.”
“Kindness is the most meaningful form of progress.”
“You get to a better tomorrow by living a better today.”
“When our time comes to check out of this world we will regret a thousand thousand times the good deeds left undone and the kind words left unsaid. But this morning is another day.”
“We are so busy trying to make a better TOMORROW that we forget to make the best of TODAY.”
“We are so busy trying to make a better TOMORROW that we forget to make the best of TODAY.”
“If we have enough confidence that our dreams shall see the light,one day,it surely will.”
“Never be too glad if you happen to be rich in life,but rather be too glad if you happen to have reserve riches inside your mental world.”
“Be nice to whoever crosses your path in life because they may never meet you again and that will be the lasting experience which will describe you for rest of their lives.”
“Why should the fear of death prevent us from living?”
“The definition of ‘Difficult’ is just ‘the things which you don’t know’”
“LIFE WILL BE USELESS WITHOUT SHOWING THE REAL VALUE...”
“Absolutely amazing things happen when you believe.”
“Absolutely amazing things happen when you believe.”
“Adversity wins when you let it win by giving up, so don't. Fight, deal & overcome it to move forward with your dreams.”
“Adversity wins when you let it win by giving up, so don't. Fight, deal & overcome it to move forward with your dreams.”
“Be thankful to the people who have told you you could not do it, as they've probably fired you up even more!”
“Be thankful to the people who have told you you could not do it, as they've probably fired you up even more!”
“GIVE ME NOTHING BUT A REASON TO SMILE AND ANYTIME I SMILE, I'LL GIVE YOU A REASON TO WHY I ADORE YOU”
“Every second is an opportunity to change something should you decide it.”
“You cannot always control the events in your life, but you can always control your thoughts, decisions & actions.”
“You cannot always control the events in your life, but you can always control your thoughts, decisions & actions.”
“We all program our gadgets—computers, mobiles, but we don’t Program our Mind in such a way that we can REJOICE and BE HAPPY.-RVM”
“We all program our gadgets—computers, mobiles, but we don’t Program our Mind in such a way that we can REJOICE and BE HAPPY.-RVM”
“Working out is like going back in time”
“when someone less fortunate wants to get through a door and they don't have keys they either learn how to pick the lock or try randomly or just wait till someone open it for them”
“when someone less fortunate wants to get through a door and they don't have keys they either learn how to pick the lock or try randomly or just wait till someone open it for them”
“you don't grow up in pain believing that someone can outwork you”
“you don't grow up in pain believing that someone can outwork you”
“most people get in troubles 'cause they can't select the right difficulty level of life that they can handle”
“most people get in troubles 'cause they can't select the right difficulty level of life that they can handle”
“you can't aim big if you are not that good of a shooter”
“you can't aim big if you are not that good of a shooter”
“The owl speaks not once but twice”
“You should never try to be perfect imperfections is what makes everything Interesting”
“RVM's Thought for the Day-"The wise respond. The foolish react. The wise think & then act. The foolish act and then regret."”
“RVM's Thought for the Day-"The wise respond. The foolish react. The wise think & then act. The foolish act and then regret."”
“In this life,all you will ever need nor desire is presently residing inside your dream world.”
“Life's irony;We humans limit belief with our beliefs.”
“The philosophy first,then wealth there after.”
“Never be afraid of what others think of you, fear won't bring the real you out but only the reflection of them and that's not YOU”
“Start your day with a set of WORD POWER. It's telling your inner GPS to lock on blessings. Here are some sets of Word Power: "I love you.", "Thank you." "I am a blessing." "You're a gift to me.”
“The longer you live doesn’t mean the better you can do, infact the better you do will let you longer to live”
“The Sun challenges us to Shine, the Clouds remind us to Move, the Birds tell us we too can Fly and the Sky tells us that there is no limit to our Dreams and Goals.-RVM”
“The Sun challenges us to Shine, the Clouds remind us to Move, the Birds tell us we too can Fly and the Sky tells us that there is no limit to our Dreams and Goals.-RVM”
“It's only the closing of a chapter, turn the page your story continues on.”
“Mountains can't get any bigger but Men can”
“The only thing that belongs to us is our LIFE. Yet, we waste it in the pursuit of meaningless things that will never belong to us.-RVM”
“The only thing that belongs to us is our LIFE. Yet, we waste it in the pursuit of meaningless things that will never belong to us.-RVM”
“There is no impossible situation in a possible mind.”
“If you cannot get into the system; create your own.
Nobody can give you your future; if you want it, you must take it.”
“If you really want to be the harmony in opposition, start by moving out of your way.”
“Every time I put my shoes on, I'm doing this world a service.”
“If your searching for an explanation from those that hate you, you'll never accept the reason from those that love you.”
“Life might be temporary but how you affect it is not.”
“The minutes will Tick, the days will Pass, the Journey is Ours, Smile while it Lasts. RVM”
“The minutes will Tick, the days will Pass, the Journey is Ours, Smile while it Lasts. RVM”
“Religionism is the worship of one’s religion not of one's God…”
“No matter what you believe in or you believe in nothing. Still, you should put your heart at the right place and have a sense of justice ! These are the basic principles of human beings.”
“Love is more than color or race. It is an honest, pure and sure feeling one cannot control. It is the full acceptance  of each other, the good and the bad. Therefore the shade of your skin should not define the person you are, nor should it define them. Love is not black and white. It's all colors of the rainbow and more!”
“The beauty of growing older, is being able to gain more knowledge and enjoy new experiences.”
“To achieve the heights of greatness, one must first know where greatness is, along with the determination to get there.”
“Wherever there is an end, there's always a new beginning”
“If it doesn't challenge you, it probably won't change you.”
“Right now is your choice, to carry on with an old trait or make a new one.”
“Tolerance, not Hatred. Respect, not Violence. Peace, not Belligerence.”
“Circumstances don't make you unaccountable, own your mistake and grow from it.”
“Beauty is not what you're looking at, its what you see.”
“Life is about finding a new dawn chorus after the swan song of something good.”
“At this point and in this light, you're all the things you've learned and all the things you'll teach.”
“Don't let your dreams moss over before they have a chance to blossom, water them often and push yourself out of the ground.”
“Life is like he Autobahn, you can go as fast as you want--as long as you aren't reckless.”
“Life is like he Autobahn, you can go as fast as you want--as long as you aren't reckless.”
“If i tell you; you might get it. If I show you; you might be aware of it. If you experience it; you'll master it.”
“THE MAN WHO LOVES WITH PATIENCE, UNDERSTANDING AND HONESTY WILL YOU MISS WHEN YOU HAVE DRIVEN THEM AWAY,IF YOU THINK YOUR WANTS IS MORE THAN THESE NEEDS OF LOVE”
“Create Your Own Universe.”
“Life's Irony;Our most innovative mental output today,will tomorrow become stale.”
“Never say it is possible,but rather say it is positively possible.”
“Use your needs to web your wants.”
“Our future resides inside our beliefs.”
“Nothing is impossible,unless your thinking says it is so.”
“Forget about the Past; Don't Worry about the Future; Live Today!-RVM”
“Forget about the Past; Don't Worry about the Future; Live Today!-RVM”
“In life you are as rich as your rich philosophy.”
“People don't have to acknowledge your Hundred-Percent, they have to respect it.”
“The desolate of living to birth accomplishments for greed, is that you never birth accomplishment in the barren of those that have nothing else.”
“It's ok to say "I'm not ok"
It's ok to say "I'm broken"
It's ok to say " I need u"
It should never provoke anger or hatefulness
To be there for you in one battle is good but to not stand beside you when you feel like your in a war is "not ok"”
“Far more wondrous than the wonders of the world are wonders of the human body . . .the Eyes, the Ears, the Nose, the Mouth, the Hands, the Head and the Heart. -RVM”
“Far more wondrous than the wonders of the world are wonders of the human body . . .the Eyes, the Ears, the Nose, the Mouth, the Hands, the Head and the Heart. -RVM”
“When the Enemy press in with anxiety, fear, shame, condemnation, weakness, doubt, and regret. We press out with prayer, faith, honor, approval, power, confidence, and satisfaction.”
“Make your Vocation into Vacation and you will not have to work a single day.”
“You are invincible only till then you believe you are.”
“Just like waves in the ocean come and go, no challenge is permanent. Problems will come and go too. We must enjoy the Challenges just like we enjoy the Waves.-RVM”
“Everyone can reach there goals, you just have to keep going and find the net!”
“Life has taught me that money is important, but it's not everything. For, if I have all the money in the world, but no time to enjoy, of what use is it?-RVM”
“Life has taught me that money is important, but it's not everything. For, if I have all the money in the world, but no time to enjoy, of what use is it?-RVM”
“When you love what you are doing & passionate to reach the world,nature then limits you with the sky.”
“Give me the courage to change what I can change, the serenity to accept what I cannot change and the wisdom to make the differences between both”
“The best things in life are free, but they don't always last forever, so cherish them while you can.”
“Wise is the man who sees beyond what's obvious.”
““The human race is one of the few creatures whom can cry tears. If you look at us we are running around like small insects—all submerged in our own important errands. Everyone blind of whats going on underneath their own noses. We can be compassionate as well as evil. We can love and we can destroy. I will always wonder how the same creature can do both. Oxymoron.”
Everything Changes, Always.”
“When freedom comes, Freedom doesn't always serve.”
“Thinking well is far better than thinking alot.”
“Pain may create Misery, Pain may give you Sorrow. It may trouble you Today, but will be gone Tomorrow. Pain has its Ways; it surely comes but never Stays.-RVM”
“There comes a time when you have to stop waiting for things to happen. Stop regretting or feeling remorse for the things you wish had happened. Stop blaming others for the things you didn't learn how to do earlier in life and focus on what you want. Your world is your domain. Only you can decide what belongs and what does not within it. Start now!”
“When we say "wise man/woman", we often think about a kind, generous, friendly person that can make your soul dance in happiness. Other kind of people did not found themselves yet.”
“OPEN YOUR EYES TO THE REALITY OF THINGS AND DON'T FORGET WHEN YOU ARE NOT SERIOUS, THEN YOU ARE PLAYING..NO MORE EXCUSES”
“Heaven is not a destiny, there's a price we must pay to get that Crown”
“Happiness is learning to master being alone, and loving each and every moment.”
“We are not suppose to try, and make folk true to us. We are to be true to who we are, which will expose who folk are.”
“Don't Put Off your efforts because of any fear of failure. Remember your failures teach you much more useful lessons than your success.”
“I view the world as it is, brutal and merciless. But sometimes when I see it from a different angle it becomes the most beautiful thing anyone can imagine.”
“It's funny how people are so much alike the people they hate.”
“Self belief is tested only when nobody around you believes you”
“The #1 M.L.M. Product is Your Confidence and the Ability to Build Confidence in Your Team!”
“Hate slowly builds up.
It just builds up to a point where you can't take it anymore. You may get to a stage where you want to give up. But just stay strong, trust me you'll get through it.”
“The limit to Our POTENTIAL's is like a horizon. When we run towards it and reach the full potential, the horizon shifts by the distance we ran”
“Good health is subjective and cumulative depending on individual interpretation. Do not allow someone else’s shortcomings to become yours.”
“They say mistakes make a man perfect but mistake is only once,the next time is your own choice.”
“Don't listen to your heart, when things aren't turning the way you imagined or expected. Stop.Breathe, and let it go.”
“The mind is the origin of great and unbelievable ideas, dreams and visions; i call it the eye of the inner man that has the potency to see beyond external influences, filters the impurities of the past and magnetizes the would-be.”
“The moment your mind tries to imitate the mind of God even though it was fashioned in its likeness, you will do great exploits and live an awesome life, i am sure you will look at your achievements and you can’t but say it loud to yourself, this is good.”
“Funny how these groups claim to be; chosen, better off, or masters of the universe. I don’t see how they can all be right but I can see how they can all be wrong.”
“You'll never be good enough to be just like them because you're you, it's as simple as that.”
“I am the wisest man alive, for I know I consciously know nothing at all. I am the smartest man alive because I am aware my sub-conscious mind knows everything created by man, and of man.”
“Tomorrow is the first day of the rest of my life. The end, and start of something new. You must be fully dedicated to what you're about to set out and achieve. Do it for the people who don't have the opportunity, the people who are not given a choice. Live for all of them, let them motivate you through your struggles. Think of them when you have a choice, do what's right. Be responsible. Don't give up, don't ever give up.”
“The Achiever says his Thoughts led him to Success and the Criminal says his Thoughts led him to Crime. Everybody thinks, but what we Think determines our Destiny.-RVM”
“The Achiever says his Thoughts led him to Success and the Criminal says his Thoughts led him to Crime. Everybody thinks, but what we Think determines our Destiny.-RVM”
“I passed in some subjects in exam.But my friend passed in all subjects.Now,he is an engineer in Microsoft and i am the owner of Microsoft.”
“I believe & so I am.”
“We truly learn only when we experience something on our own; Just having information doesn’t mean learning at all.”
“Never be depressed when you experience trials & tribulations,because inside them a great purpose will emerge.”
“To begeth a family is good,but not better than to find your life's purpose.”
“The innate power residing inside of man forbids him to beg for bread,but rather to rightfully demand for it.”
“Believe,even though initially you may not be believable,just believe.”
“Get dexterous whenever you can, lest time will roll on, diming this day and age”
“There are people who are dancing through Life and others who are crying through Life. The irony is that Life is the same—what we do is purely our Choice.-RVM”
“There are people who are dancing through Life and others who are crying through Life. The irony is that Life is the same—what we do is purely our Choice.-RVM”
“Whatever decision you make while you're in a highly emotional state, don't do it. It will likely be wrong.”
“To tell an Elder the painful truth and later apologise, is same flogging a child and telling him not to cry.”
“One act of kindness a day... will keep your discomfort and unrest at bay.”
“You can steal my idea but not my mind.”
“A bridge can never be built too strong”
“I was born a human and I will die a human. Caste, creed, religion, region got attached to me along my life's journey. Let us not forget who we truly are. Rise above such petty differences and act like you only know yourself as a human.”
“Have a positive mind towards the winter & also have a positive mind towards the summer,for the positive thought you deposit in turn,maketh all circumstances to be positive towards you.”
“Greatness cometh when an ordinary being thinks in an extra-ordinary way.”
“Believing strongly in the unbelievable is the only way they can ever become believable.”
“Live the life you believe in & not the one another believes about you.”
“The mediocre mind says"I depend on your money,but the great mind will say,"I depend on the benefits my mind can produce.”
“Failure is never found,but rather it has been replaced with the word success in the dictionary of the wise.”
“I know there are in's and out's, I just don't know what the in's and out's are.”
“Optimism is the greatest thing in the world!”
“Man's incredible inhumanity to man can be met with similar inhumanity or in a more Christ-like manner. The Christian response is surely better and may be the only valid one but it's not often used, not even by Christians, we seem to think there's too much at stake.”
“Some people are evil. You can feed them but never show them your kitchen.”
““Without criticism; mediocrity reigns.””
“Strength does not come by numbers; it comes by one mind, one heart, and one soul.”
“Very often, we let little things spoil some of our most important treasures—our Moment, our Day, our Life.-RVM”
“Very often, we let little things spoil some of our most important treasures—our Moment, our Day, our Life.-RVM”
“Pursue your purpose,die empty.”
“First thing you have to do before you engage in any duty or activity is to accept who you are”
“Some will make you Dance, some will make you Smile, and some will make your misery longer than a mile! Pleasure or Pain, the Choice is thine.-RVM”
“Some will make you Dance, some will make you Smile, and some will make your misery longer than a mile! Pleasure or Pain, the Choice is thine.-RVM”
“If motivation should be a constant in your life's equation, it must be self motivation.”
“To remain motivated, you need self motivation.”
“MY TASTE MAY NOT BE TO YOUR LIKING, BUT I'LL NEVER FEED YOU SOMETHING YOU WILL WANT TO SPIT OUT”
“The suffering has to end where it must; the happiness should start as the suffering ends.”
“The stars will shine when we are confined in the darkness.”
“Do not fear death, but fear of living with no meaningful endeavor.”
“A great burden was lifted from my shoulders the day I realized that no one owes
me anything.”
“BE A PERSON THAT ACTS TO DO NOTHING BUT IS DETERMINED TO DO MANY THINGS”
“Everyone's looking to the urban scene for inspiration now.”
“Amalgamation of hardwork and devotion roots up the seeds for success.”
“Think Twice To Act Wise”
“You must be present in the present to make it a present.-RVM”
“I've drawn a lot of inspiration from the '60s.”
“The Mind May Say I Can’t
But The Body Says
Watch Me!”
““Often people trade on the CURRENCY of their beauty because they have never developed the quality of their CHARACTER.””
“Only boring people get bored.”
“Live before the Journey is over, Live before it is too late. LIVE because you deserve to.-RVM”
“Live before the Journey is over, Live before it is too late. LIVE because you deserve to.-RVM”
“The ordinary mind believes just because he has seen,but the extra-ordinary mind believes because he has not seen it in the physical,but rather in his mind's eye.”
“Just the way we have a reserve tyre in an automobile,we humans also need to have a reserve dream in life,in case dream A, refuses to materialise,we then quietly opt for dream B”
“Ambition is a gallery of reality which needs to be fulfilled and once it is fulfilled it becomes a gallery of success,success and success.”
“Dreaming is not a form of imagination, but a form of motivation.”
“Believe me when i say;
I know the 'U' in ugly.
Never did it lie to me.”
“My mediocrity is no secret; my battles with it are.”
“My dreams keep selling me a promisong concoction they call happiness.”
“I find the road less traveled to have a smoother surface.”
“I find the road less traveled to have a smoother surface.”
“Sure, words can hurt us, but it's the only thing that makes us stronger.”
“We get by with a thought for the day, with love for a month, with pain for a year and ourselves for a lifetime.”
“We get by with a thought for the day, with love for a month, with pain for a year and ourselves for a lifetime.”
“Time is not your enemy. Money is not your enemy. You are your only enemy and it is time you became your own best friend.”
“What would you lose to try, a very pretty and promising life.”
“Tomorrow can help us erase all the disappointments of today.”
“Once there is life,tomorrow shall never cease to exist”
“The power to eliminate fear & welcome freedom into our lives lies on faith.”
“Life without GOALS is like flying a plane not knowing where you want to land. The PURPOSE OF LIFE is to know where we want to go and then go there.-RVM”
“Life without GOALS is like flying a plane not knowing where you want to land. The PURPOSE OF LIFE is to know where we want to go and then go there.-RVM”
“Time to stop being the footnote and become the headline!”
““How to be a good person? Simple! Don't make people say "I wanna kill you!" Make them say "I would die to be like you"””
“Where there is a will,there is love.”
“I GET LIFTED BY THE TRIALS OF EVERYDAY, BUT IM NEVER IMPRISONED”
“There is a beneficial tomorrow,for every believer of today.”
“If today will not help me,I know my tomorrow will.”
“Obstacles are always standing on the only way to every beneficial thing in life.”
“Make a wish and blow out a candle. It doesn't have to be your birthday for you to believe in magic.”
“Don't just Hurry, don't just Haste. Don't just Worry, don't just Waste. Life is a Treasure, Enjoy the Pleasure.-RVM”
“Lasting love is what the heart wants and the soul needs. Lasting love is within and all around, not just to be found in one other person.”
“In times of fear and adversity, the measure of true strength and courage is not determined by what we become. It is determined by what we refuse to become.”
“NO MATTER HOW TRASH SOMEBODY MAKES YOU FEEL WHEN YOU TRY "SHOULDNT CHANGE YOU".. IN HONESTY, BE THE BEST YOU CAN ALL DAY, COS SOMEBODY BETTER THAN THEM IS WATCHING AND SMILING..THEY MIGHT JUST NOT BE FRIENDS.. Sam-F (Da Bar Owna)”
“Never jump out of a plane, just to prove your parachute doesn't work. A wise man is content to know he is right. A foolish man must always prove it.”
“Mediocre minds usually dismiss anything which reaches beyond their own
understanding.”
“I have one follower, i'm a rebellion, now I turn back and the one person turned into a million.”
“Life shows you who you've become, rest everything is just a past!”
“Second chances are important, they make way for change!”
“Occasionally we humans should all show gratitude to the great companies the world over that are sweating & serving our needs,even if their original aim is for the companies to meet their own financial goals.”
“Be Yourself...”
“Actions and words Part 2: With spears and fire? I think not, let be honest, communication has always been an equal with actions, it a fact. No action can be done by own strength alone, unless words can help in the form of understanding. Sometimes, we need both understanding and strength to unlock potential of our own.”
“Actions and words Part 1: Does actions really speak louder then words? Lot of people believe it true. If you are one of them, then let me ask you this, which is more powerful? The pen or the sword? The mentally or the physically? How did we get past 200,000 years of hardship and become what we are today?”
“What is Regret;
Regret is for things long gone,
Regret eats away at what makes us strong.”
“Some people get controlled by mind,
But some people control's the mind ...
They are winners always”
“Dreams don’t just magically appear; you must be tenacious in your pursuit towards making them a reality.”
“There can be no Positive result from a Negative attitude. Think Positive. Live Positive.-RVM”
“To truly enjoy life one must understand the difference between looking and seeing; touching and feeling; hearing and listening; eating and tasting. It is the difference between existing and living.”
“If you see me, and am looking like I'm in love in the midst of your hate, wonderfully floating over your rainy showers. All while dressed in my royal garment, staying peaceful in all your misunderstanding, and running joyful missing your sorrow. Believe it, I jut left throne of God.”
“Want to conquer your dreams?
Getup, suit up, and go to work...”
“I learn from the person I was to continue being the person I am.”
“The more you stab , the more i step”
“It's a bet - the more you Give, the more you will Get.-RVM”
“All these things, like sickness and sorrow, that we think that we could do with
out, are really making us stronger in our faith. In my suffering I became strong! It
is in pain and anguish that we call upon God the most.”
“I shall create a world without Pain. For Peace i shall start a War. For living I shall start Killing.”
“Decisiveness is a characteristic of high-performing men and women. Almost any decision is better than no decision at all.”
“We build, design and create the future, passionately nurture it, then hand it to the world as we ultimately fade to death, we may never fully see the finished masterpiece or the impact it has on the human race, we call this fate driven destiny, perhaps it’s the master design, maybe even a random synthesis of factors”
“The same GOD you are afraid to ACKNOWLEDGE in public is the same GOD you CRY to behind closed doors...”
“Everyone has internal bleeding. Some manage to drink that blood
while some drink others.”
“This planet is going to be destroyed by aliens. They are no other than human.”
“Drinking blood, eating flames, making hate, troubling others and
creating worst tomorrow simply makes human.”
“May the love you share with each other be like a prayer you say to each other every day confirming your faith in each other and in your love and faith of God.”
“You cannot force change in others, you can only inspire change in others by being your awesomely self.”
“You cannot force change in others, you can only inspire change in others by being your awesomely self.”
“You know what's wrong with people? They live by the "have to" attitude; instead of "want to".”
“GOD did not make us on a MASS PRODUCTION, so there's no DUPLICATE!!!!”
“To make your journey wow, you have to be in the now.”
“So many funny things in our lives. Imagine this, we love the aroma and taste of our delicacies but we detest the smell of our fart and faeces.”
“Friends have so much to say in terms of what kind of person you develop into becoming.
You can also tell a lot about a person based on what kind of people they choose to associate with.
Choose wisely.
Read the rest here: http://ownquotes.com/quote/friends-have-so-much-to-say-in-terms-of-what-kind-of-person-you-develop-int/39706/ (500 char limit :( )”
“Never expect tomorrow to be better if you have not believed in today.”
“For your tomorrow to be positive,never sow negative thoughts nor actions today.”
“Happiness is a choice…you cannot choose what happens, but you can choose your reaction to it and be Happy.-RVM”
“Happiness is a choice…you cannot choose what happens, but you can choose your reaction to it and be Happy.-RVM”
“Everyone has a dream until it comes to putting in the work. If your work ethic was equivalent to your self worth, how valuable would you be?”
“Do not overheat the sugar or, instead of becomes into sweet caramel, you will get a burned pan.”
“-Why we draw hearts like ♥?
-An human heart, in his full complexion of arteries and tissue, is shaped like half of the heart that you just draw.
So, if you are in front of someone, the heart will be mirroed yet in a different side of your body. In that complexion, the heart symbol as we know, forms two human hearts, side by side, together.”
“Se tourada é cultura, canibalismo é gastronomia.”
“A História é a luz do passado que, no presente, ilumina o futuro.”
“Cada vez gosto mais de ser Português e cada vez tenho mais orgulho no meu País. É-me insuportável ouvir dizer: Somos um País pequeno e periférico.
Para mim, Portugal é central e muito grande.”
“A dream without passion or a plan to make it a reality is just a wish.”
“The fool wait until tomorrow to begin to accomplish his dreams,but the wise begins today.”
“We human are just only as tiny as dust on earth.
Life is fragile,variable and helpless sometimes.
Still, we had to put our hearts at the right place always.......”
“There can never be a better tomorrow if the seeds we sow today are less better”
“Tomorrow & the poor are two of a kind,for they exist along side the living.”
“Today is the mirror of tomorrow.”
“Life's irony;if all our dreams come to pass today,then tomorrow shall be our period of rest.”
“If you really want more, then cross the door and get to the shore.-RVM”
“If you take more time to listen to the customer, they will take more time to listen to you and then it is easier for all to smile in the end.”
“Some people just love to play. They playing with toys when they were kids, they playing with friends when they were teen, and they playing with feelings when they were young. Life if much more than just "play".”
“Our life stories are written on three materials, a paper which is so easy to handle,light, colourful, easily torn and easy to erase, anybody can write on it, a cloth which is soft, colorful, writings stay longer, fade when bleached , fade with time, tear with time,all purpose use, specific machinery needed to write on it, a Rock, engraved for life, neutral colour, words are only rewritten by the Maker.”
“You did all of those things which makes yourself a successful person in your professional and personal life, but if you never done anything for others in your life, it means you have done nothing.”
“Don't let yourself down if you cannot see your destiny. It's just like your eyes are dry but you still can cry.”
“Don't depend on others when you are in trouble, who knows when will they leave you alone. The only thing which remains with you is your own determination.”
“You cannot be in loss anyway if you are in relationship, because love makes you lover and cheat makes you poet.”
“People are afraid of the thoughts that are outside their normal boundaries”
“I would rather live 10 years doing what I Love, than drag through Life 50 years, hating every day I Live.-RVM”
“I would rather live 10 years doing what I Love, than drag through Life 50 years, hating every day I Live.-RVM”
“Those who give it all, deserve it all.”
“As human beings, we are selfish in what we see are our struggles and problems in this world.
And for that we truly do not see what really matters in life, but if we do it is quite rare.”
“I don't believe in god but the thought of it puts my mind at ease and allows me to move on.”
“The power to succeed is always in your hands.”
“Nothing simply means,you have not seen with your minds eye,the something inside the nothing”
“Never believe you don't have what it takes to impact the universe,because once you have impacted your neighbour,then you have also impacted the universe.”
“Even if tomorrow will not come,i shall endeavour to accomplish my dreams today.”
“Education is incomplete without an appreciation towards knowledge.”
“There is too much ME in a world filled with US”
“No one can tell you what you're capable of, It's you that stands in front of yourself and yourself to blame for you're actions”
“Demons what demons, Make them your minions and twist and spit words out; pull the trigger to inspiration and motivation.”
“Remember wisdom is a measure not by experiences but those who incorporate their faults and failures by people and themselves to become something.”
“The emotional fracture towards the brain may cause you negative apparitions in life. However, Keep in mind that fractures only heal to become stronger than before.”
“Laziness is like activation energy. It's that bump that needs to be passed in order to achieve greatness.”
“Hope! Oh how I love you so much, you give me breath when I feel I can no longer breath; you give me comfort when I feel like I can no longer sleep; for without you the day looks bleak. Hope! Oh Hope! Don't ever leave me for a second for the happiness and excitement you fill my veins with is what makes me want to love my life during every waking second.”
“When you've done all you can do, that's when you leave it up to God.”
“Never limit yourself in life,for indeed you can impact the world.”
“There is a genius residing inside of you,go inside yourself & fetch it out.”
“You can never force greatness to beckon,but once it's season comes,then it comes effortlessly.”
“Let us all emulate nature by being extravagant in our thinking,for nature does not believe in the word scarcity.”
“Every negative situation gingers the positive mind.”
“Today is another opportunity for us to utilize the gift called life to accomplish our dreams.”
“Never rejects your feelings,accept your feelings and follow them.”
“Hope is the final hope!”
“Whatever You Would Want to Do at NIGHT, You can always DO IT DURING THE DAY!!! So wait...”
“When life seems funny, just have fun.”
“Surround yourself with people who value your friendship, rather than those who posed the opposite.”
“Life is a beautiful gift that is bestowed upon us, go on out and live it. Believe in yourself, let your light shine upon the entire universe.”
“Don't be pigheaded over your successes, but rather educate and inspire others to follow in your footsteps.”
“Music is an important factor to a healthy way of living.”
“Everybody knows how to live they would live with food,cloth and shelter but its that somebody who knows how to achieve it.”
“The day you stop learning is the day of your funeral.”
“Your worth is not between you and this world. Your worth is between you and God.”
“I've been pushed on, cursed out, lied on, gossiped about, utterly disrespected by some, and still yet I rise in my worth.”
“Just because you were around your family, doesn't mean you to know them. This could very well mean you were just around them.”
“We must see possibilities inside impossibility for the probably impossible to become positively possible.”
“In the midst of the seed called great crises,lies the fruit called great opportunity.”
“Hello is for now, Goodbye is forever.”
“It's unhealthy to live a life with regrets.”
“Have a Blast; Life won’t last! Make the Best of Today, before it is gone!-RVM”
“Patience is drawing on underlying forces, it is powerfully positive, though to a natural view it looks like just sitting it out. How would I persist against positive eroding forces if I were not drawing on invisible forces? And patience has a positive tonic effect on others; because of the presence of the patient person, they revive and go on, as if he were the gyroscope of the ship providing a stable ground. But the patient person himself does not enjoy it.”
“Only you knows the pace at which you want to move in life and the kind of life's standards you set for you, people may wish you move at a faster or slower pace and have a higher or lower life's standards. Setting a reasonable unwavering pace and standards for you is a fence against frustration and it awards you undeniable fulfillment in life.”
“Aspire to be virtuous.
Love everyone.
Know that we are all on our own paths but we are never alone.”
“Failure is only a 7 letter word that has no meaning or impact until you decide to give up.”
“Perfection is the cumulative of all the little perfect things you do.”
“Nothing positive can proceed out of the life of a perpetual negative thinker.”
“The only wall between you and success is feasibility.”
“Doubt exists in every step you make. It allows you to foresee the dangers ahead.”
“Life is a social structure that subordinates Humanity to its will, using the machinery of society that exists solely to perpetuate itself, its influence, and power independent of human need”
“do not think your life as no meaning, you are worth more then you know, with each passing day”
“The only thing in life you should be proud to say you "can't do",and will "never accomplish", is FAIL.”
“IF YOU SURROUND YOURSELF IN THE COMPANY OF GOOD MEN THEN HOPEFULLY YOU WILL BECOME A BETTER MAN OVER TIME”
“The essence of our character can illuminate love to the many that can't see love, feel love, receive love, or share love. For we are that Love.”
“The people who are always making excuses are the ones who work for less”
“Trapped in my heart are little pieces of you.”
“Live for a better today so you can enjoy it tomorrow.”
“Most High, glorious God, enlighten the darkness of my heart and give me true faith, certain hope, and perfect charity, sense and knowledge, Lord, that I might carry out Your holy and true command.”
“Don't look at each day as what I have to do, but what I get to do.”
“Always tell anyone you love that you love them because does anyone ever really get mad or bothered to find out that someone loves them?”
“Sacred treasures hidden within a heart. Once discovered we realise it becoming a light that leads to endless miracles.”
“When you're to make a choice, do not go for the good_ if the best is absent, go for the better.”
“Why brag that you have changed? Who are you proving it to them or yourself?”
“Desert is the truth while mirage is an illusion, it's us who start running from it and make a living out of the mirages but in the end, mirage vanishes and what leaves behind is the desert”
“The illusion of choice gives us the freedom of thoughts.”
“Never embrace doubt,for you can only see & possess if only you believe.”
“If you believe in the good things of life,the good things of life will also believe in you.”
“Believe In One soul, One Hope,One Goal And that should be you”
“Give no attention to those who don't take the time to know you yet talk about you for it is only unimportant chatter on who they assume you are but listen to those who have taken the time to know you and express about you because what they say will be wisdom on how to become a better you.”
“It doesn't matter how other people look at you, What matters is the way YOU look at your self.”
“It is better to be thankful for what you have than to be unthankful for what you don't have”
“Nobody can ever believe in you as much as you can believe in yourself.”
“In this life,it is always a no contest to be poor,but a strong contest to become rich.”
“It does not matter what you think, what you believe or what you feel the only thing that ultimately matters is what you do.”
“The practical ways to maneuver certain decision we endure to achieve in life is the power of positive thinking”
“I am determination; everything more, nothing less”
“My life is my flight, whether i catch it or i miss it .........!”
“Belief demands a lot of trusting and love the word itself has lie in the middle!!”
“Unless we prevail on our minds to believe in ourselves,we shall not be able to do anything of note in life.”
“When elephants fight, the ground suffers but when elephants fall in fight, the ground flourishes.”
“Measure your success by the number of your haters.”
“Fear is an absence of love. Just like cold is an absence of heat and darkness an absence of light.”
“A real warrior is not the bravest nor the strongest but someone who surely knows what he is fighting for.”
“The brain is a Bank Account.What you credit is what you debit with little interest.”
“Intelligence is taken, wisdom is given, common sense is and remains yours.”
“You're alive! So strive to thrive, not just survive.”
“Everyone born is on temporary assignment.”
“Dream with your heart and succeed with your mind”
“Your brain is a belief factory. Ultimately you decide what gets designed, produced, and shipped out to the world.”
“Those with mortal ideas pursue paper certificates & its benefits with passion,but those blessed with immortal ideas pursue imagination & its unlimited blessings.”
“Have Faith in the Pursuit of your Dreams.”
“Love is not an iceberg forever frozen as it marches across the face of Mother Earth. Instead love is like honey, it's fast flowing once it is warmed up.”
“Destiny is His calling for you, Purpose is You finding the will to make it happen.”
“We all want to be solitary stars though we can create more brilliance as part of a constellation...”
“Don't just believe, expect God to intervene and change things around in your favor.”
“Such a blessing when we work under the direction of the holy spirit, you just never know when he will change things, and when he does it always better, I started .this wedding gown with a much different vision and now with his help a new style is created, My God is Awesome.”
“God has a reason why he doesn't show us all his plans for our lives, if he shows us the plans he will have to reveal the process in getting there and I am sure some of us would say. Nope! not gonna happen.”
“Values are tapes we play on the Walkman of the mind. Any tune we choose is
fine so long as it does not disturb others.”
“Embrace your process and allow God to work out his plan for your life.”
“I am alive and well, food on my table , shoes on my feet, a roof over my head? Family's good, God with me, I am blessed,”
“Getting something good out of anything may not need years of suffering and endurance, but just minutes of dedicated heart and crazy thinking(This of-course people will tell you, because they have for me)”
“God is up to something good and you do not want to be caught unprepared, get ready.”
“Everyone starts off with a little bit of this, and a little bit of that. So whose fault is it when you give it away to others this, and that.”
“I've exhausted all of my excuses. I might as well borrow one of yours.”
“Any path that lacks heart, is never one you want to start.”
“The store design offers a higher-end, inspirational feel; however the price points are moderate.”
“The only thing that overrides destiny is a souls sense of certainty!”
“When our vision is through the lens of our hearts, there is nothing that can tear us apart!”
“Let your beliefs guide you to the place called success,provided you are blessed with the right beliefs.”
“There comes a time when you must decide to awaken. Live not in fear for we are with you.”
“No man can tell you how far you can go in life,but only your beliefs.”
“Ideas, those that you think of or those that you receive from someone else, even the false ones that you don't believe, are like seeds getting into a soil. By watering them, they become a part of your reality.”
“In this life you've got every potentials to be as rich as the rich potentials embedded inside you.”
“It cannot be done simply means,it can only be done by those who desperately believe.”
“Love -
Two perfectly happy people ready to gamble.”
“I'm So sad; I can't cry”
“I'm So sad; I can't cry”
“I'm So sad; I can't cry”
“I'm So sad; I can't cry”
“Why kill me before I die?”
“Why kill me before I die?”
“the house only leaks when it rains”
“I am falling in love with falling out of love”
“I am falling in love with falling out of love”
“I am falling in love with falling out of love”
“Love is not an option, it's not a feeling or an emotion. Love simply is. We don't become love, we just have to acknowledge that we ARE love.”
“Who ever said,"LIFE ALWAYS MOVES FORWARD ", was certainly right. The past is always Pain just because i cant drug it to my future to meet my favorite Events or People.”
“Our mindset must be altered before our lives becomes altered.”
“Creativity is your identity. Wear it like a badge and smile when people borrow it. You're doing something right!”
“The future is always more dangerous than the present and the past.”
“It takes only an apostrophe to make the word impossible possible according to the word itself.”
“Who isn’t bipolar these days, we all have ups and downs.
Life is a continuous whirlwind.”
“We are all born warriors and free.”
“We are all born warriors and free.”
“A mother is the light of the home and for her to keep the light burning; she herself must also be enlightened.”
“Be brave. Don't just live in your cave till your grave.-RVM”
“Dear Past, I'm a better me because of you! Dear Future, you inspire me to accomplish great things.”
“Letting go of ones anger is tantamount to ones letting go of fear. The path to forgiveness is when one verbalises their desire to surrender.”
“How can we make someone else listen, if we aren't aware of the sound of our own voice?”
“True Happiness doesn't come from Prosperity, Pleasure, and Power, but from PEACE.-RVM”
“Confidence is looking fear in the eye and saying, "I can and I will."”
“Keep pressing your way and eventually everything will iron itself out.”
“How can anything bad come out of love? The bad stuff comes out of mistrust, misunderstanding, and God knows from hate, and from ignorance.”
“Do not depart from knowledge – for it is where ALL POWER is laden.”
“Whenever you feel LOW and BROKEN because of any person, don't get upset....
Just think of those who feels HIGH and STRONG because of you, and Smile.”
“It's not revealed for such as the chosen to see, its those who choose to see that it is revealed.”
“The great view life from the narrow possibility angle,but the mediocre view life from the wide impossibility angle.”
“When you're at rock bottom shoot not for the stars, but for something in arms reach.”
“Experience is never gained until you have tried at least once.
Alan lawry”
“Everyone has done nothing, until they have done it for the first time!”
“Don't just follow the line…To be a Star - Shine!-RVM”
“Inside the belly of the great are rivers of beliefs,but inside the belly of the mediocre are rivers of doubts.”
“For every bad day there is an end to each one.”
“I feel empowered by my willingness to feel my feelings no matter how big, small, dark, or light they may be.”
“Who decides what is evil and what is good? The ones who are at the top and have all the power.”
“When things don't happen, people get Sick. They see time Tick and they want it Quick. They forget that Success happens brick by brick.-RVM”
“In a world where it needs COURAGE to be Yourself, that's a sick world!”
“One spark sets the whole forest on fire.”
“We all have a fight to fight, a war to win, and the strength to endure both.”
“It takes a fight to find a love worth fighting for.”
“It is true what they say, do what you love and you'll never work a day in your life but sometimes what you love doesn't make money unless you WORK hard at it. So you must find money making jobs that you can love in the meantime.”
“Gems of truth glisten like diamonds in the sun. Know that you are a million diamonds shining in the light of the Divine.”
“May everyday be productive and spiritually fulfilling, full of love and friendships that will last for eternity.”
“Don't let me get lost in this sea of confusion or forget all the love we have or how far we've come.”
“The hardest thing about parenthood is that, when you look at your child you are actually looking in the mirror - Regardless of their behaviour.”
“To aspire is to be human. I wish never to be "long in the tooth".”
“I try not to fall for coincidental patterns (despite a seemingly "perfect fit"), and keep my consciousness open.”
“Embrace randomness, for it will more than likely prevail over any system.”
“So, why people dislike you?
Don't get upset with people who seem mean to you 'without any reason.' Remember, our presence may have evoked a silent self-hate, feeling of inadequacy and unworthiness in these people. Instead of reacting, let's create an environment where these people could feel comfortable, secure and loved...”
“Whatever you do, stamp out abuses, and love those who love you.”
“Life is an ocean of waves, deep as it is wide, with two choices, swim or drown.”
“A resultant that never changes, no matter the number of forces,
is friendship. With friendship even the physics falls
short of theories.”
“For those who love what they do, even working 18 hours a day, 7 days a week is not work at all. It is just fun.”
“The New Year is here! Giving us a list of “New Days”! We can continue our lives with making positive changes!
All the year through we have a chance to do things differently. Each day we wake with a chance to correct yesterday's mistakes that will be blotted out and forgiven (all that is past). We are granted a new start with our truly repented heart. Have a wonderfully planned New Year!
By Spring Wells”
“Religion has not failed man- Man has failed religion!”
“Life is not complicated - people are”
“Don't lend credibility to another man's falsehood”
“Some of the most profound messages lie in the debris of life...”
“Step on my roses, but don't tread on my heart.”
“So don't think of the world around you as just a fixed point, where everything is concreted, bolted to the ground with the screws of life, never to be changed, maintained or looked at again. Even bridges that were made to never break, sometimes collapse when you overlook the smallest details.”
“When you feel like the weight of the world is on your shoulders. Allow it to become like water off a ducks back.”
“Do you want to make your Life exciting? Then find a purpose that will make you jump out of bed each day with Enthusiasm, Power and Excitement.-RVM”
“Earth is the proving ground for heaven.”
“Heaven equals have. Not having is the definition of hell. Have your own. Work for it.”
“Life is like a horrible Christmas gift; you never asked for it yet you still have to put it to good use or risk offending the people who gave it to you.”
“Marriage is the only contract where by yours becomes my.”
“We are all born believers and dreamers. However, life has the ability to tarnish this innocence and it is up to the individual to tear away the negativity and continue to believe that amazing things can happen. It is only when this occurs, that beauty, in its various forms, manifests itself. Like a couple in love, ones dreams coming true and a positive mind set also come hand in hand.”
““The right kind of love is when your head and your heart say and feel the same thing...that this person and i are meant to be together at this moment in time. If there is a conflict between the two, this is when there is someone better out there for you. You just don't know it yet. Rationality and emotion can be in alignment.””
“Self-care begins with self-awareness! Without own care; we cannot adequately care for others, period!”
“Presence is the only gift I wish to unwrap. All others mean nothing without it.”
“The only thing you may be lacking right now is the illusion that you are”
“We all have great inner power. The power is self-faith. There's really an attitude to winning. You have to see yourself winning before you win. And you have to be hungry. You have to want to conquer.”
“The resistance that you fight physically in the gym and the resistance that you fight in life can only build a strong character.”
“Milk is for babies. When you grow up you have to drink beer.”
“The worst thing I can be is the same as everybody else. I hate that.”
“When you go through hardships and decide not to surrender, that is strength”
“For me life is continuously being hungry. The meaning of life is not simply to exist, to survive, but to move ahead, to go up, to achieve, to conquer.”
“Help others and give something back. I guarantee you will discover that while public service improves the lives and the world around you, its greatest reward is the enrichment and new meaning it will bring your own life.”
“You know, nothing is more important than education, because nowhere are our stakes higher; our future depends on the quality of education of our children today.”
“What we face may look insurmountable. But I learned something from all those years of training and competing. I learned something from all those sets and reps when I didn't think I could lift another ounce of weight. What I learned is that we are always stronger than we know.”
“Man's conscience betrays him in his expectations of others”
“Never play with thinking,for inside our thinking world lies solutions to all man's problems.”
“Being fully alive means living your joy authentically. Ignoring all other expectations placed upon you. Your inner voice is your beacon, not the voices of others”
“The beginning of a new day is the opportunity for a new you.
Happy rebirth day!”
“Society will structure your character responses to their mould! | Change it - Become inevitable.”
“Play More, Pray More; Get More, Give More... Live More!!!-RVM”
“Enjoy Life. Have Fun.”
“Two of a kind, is too many to be my one of a kind.”
“Change the world:
Change the way you THINK, and you change your attitude;
Change your ATTITUDE, and you change your life;
Change your LIFE, and you change the world...”
“I see a vision,its the vision of tomorrow,no force can stop it from manifesting,not even the sun nor the moon.”
“Life is a song, listen to its melody, create a harmony and sing it aloud to God so all can hear your praise and give Him the glory”
“I'm convinced that God isn't so concerned about where you've been as He is about where you are going”
“If you hang with thugs you will develop thuggish behavior. What makes you think you are the exception?”
“Enthusiasm is a Power that can give Dreams to the Dreamless, Life to the Lifeless, and Hope to the Hopeless.-RVM”
“Yesterday simply means, that was the day i let go of all my past sorrows,regrets & inactions.”
“In a loving heart a spoon of soup feeds the whole nation, but in a loveless heart a spoon of soup drowns the whole nation.”
“Love is blind to make you see love - SRK”
“Each time one's I gets bigger there is more loss in the vision to see the Light.”
“I have searched everywhere & discovered that there are no overnight riches anywhere,for those that succeed temporarily overnight always stumble by the road side.”
“In your hobbies, you will find your future
In your fears, you will find your ambitions
In your story, you will find your faith”
“An Attitude towards determination is to be a positive thinker driving goals made to withstand failure”
“Let's live together as brother or die together as fool”
“We have the imagination and the will to build a better world. Let's build!”
“Life won't just give you lemons. It will give you options, choices, oranges and apples. Be your own person and choose what is best for you.”
“Those who Discover the High Sea are the ones who are FREE to Be what they Want to Be.-RVM”
“If each and everyone of us will allow a ray of the Son to shine in our hearts it will shine through day and night, through rainy and cloudy times because it does not give solar energy but gives the the Holy Spirit.”
“Even if there will be drought for half a century,dig your well today.”
“He who loves pleasure will be a poor man;
He who loves wine and oil will not be rich.(Proverbs 21:17).”
“All that I am and all that I dream to be, is found deep within me.”
“The mind only wishes for things that it fears it can not attain.”
“Always tell anyone you love that you love them because does anyone ever really get upset to find out that someone loves them?”
“Always follow your dreams, never look behind, hold your head up high and walk to the sky.”
“Guilt says there is something wrong with what you did, Shame says something is wrong with me;it can make us feel alone and it can consume our lives.
rip Shawn Mayes”
“What's really good is I'm riding really badly today. It's actually great because when I have a bad day it means I'm going to have a good day tomorrow.”
“To reach your Destination, you need a Direction, but you can't get there without Inspiration!-RVM”
“The universe where I reside is excessively wealthy & so I am.”
“Life's Irony;The bigger the dream,the smaller it becomes in the subconscious realm.”
“If you can’t hear your own voice leave that place immediately!”
“Don’t just follow the herd. Be like a bird. Open your wings and fly high in the sky!-RVM”
“I refuse to be poorer than the rich universe where I reside”
“Trust no one but yourself...and dogs”
“When you perform to a certain excellence,
crowd claps and roars for you,
we feel as a deaf in joy !
the same crowd when you hurt their sentiments,
they turn to shout and scold you,
we feel as a deaf again but in sorrow!”
““Each person is UNIQUE within themselves. IF YOU DOUBT their UNIQUENESS you will never OVERCOME your FEARS.””
“As my teenagers struggle with adolescence, I frequently remind them: popularity does not define the goodness of your heart.”
“The inspiration to me is the key that unlocks the song, painting, poem, music, or anything that can be brought to life.”
“I am who I am. U r who u r. Be who u r. Don't let nobody tell u different.”
“Since there is no way to Live after you die, why not Live Now!-RVM”
“To me, it's about getting better every time and doing the best I can every run no matter where I am. The Olympics are going to be huge, but I don't think the Olympics are going to make or break any rider. At the end of the day, it's just another contest with just a little bit more riding on it.”
“How come you have to be beautiful to stand out, when you could be that on the inside and do the same thing?”
“Every day you waste is one you can never make up.”
“If you want to touch the past, touch a rock. If you want to touch the present, touch a flower. If you want to touch the future, touch a life.”
“Music is my tapestry. Music is my release, well, one of my releases.”
“There's nothin' wrong with bein' a genius. Theres's nothin' wrong with sayin' you're a genius. I think genius is somethin' that can benefit this world.”
“Turn each failure into a steppingstone towards a higher level of living.”
“The price we accept does not so much as even whisper our worth”
“The price we accept does not so much as even whisper our worth”
“The only path I follow is the one I pave.”
“Love , she thought it would come rolling in like a great tsunami , like it would light up her soul like lightening dancing across a midnight sky , burn her with desire with the same intensity of a fire burning through a thousand trees , rage like a sea that knows no calm , yet instead it came as him .”
“Life is won when you learn to run in the Sun and have Fun before Life is done.-RVM”
“Love the day and the day will love you back.
Pamela Montana-quote 2014”
“Even though your dreams may never have been executed in life by anyone before,never the less boldly support your dreams.”
“To be blessed with the unlimited spirit is to be able to limit your limitations in life.”
“Congratulations! For you are also an indigene of this life,the best place ever.”
“If you have a dream, don’t just sit there. Gather courage to believe that you can succeed and leave no stone unturned to make it a reality.”
“Seeing with open eyes, opens up minds.
Thinking with open minds, opens up hearts.
Living with open hearts, opens up new worlds.”
“Allow your heart to guide you when it’s too dark to see.”
“Peace is a friendship which begins within you.”
“One is always greater than hundred because without one there is no hundred”
“If you see things as it is, You will never know what it is - SRK”
“Honesty is a long lost art form resigned to the archives of famous quotes and a few lone ducks in a pond of hypocrites.”
“Everybody don't wish you were Somebody, Be Somebody!- SRK”
“An overnight success takes years to achieve its goal.”
“I shall look at the opportunity to study and then find ways to climb and overcome obstacles, and never again sit up on its walls.”
“A calm tongue allows brain to cook”
“Challenging others is not a challenge, but challenging yourself to improve is the greatest of all.”
“If God didn’t want you to be happy, he would not have created “Hope” to give you something to smile for.”
“Things don’t always work out as planned. But the observation of its unraveling can create new options to explore and build on.”
“When there is a storm in your life, you should learn to understand its reason for existence and prepare yourself, because the test is coming to see what experiences you have learned from it.”
“No one is ever free when they cannot approach the obstacle that limits them.”
“Stepping out from the shadows of addictions, situations or circumstances doesn’t mean that you’re always bonded to its call in the distant future. It’s okay hearing the dark whispers of its soul, just don’t walk from the new light that you were given. For if you do, you may not return and then you have learned nothing from its experience, nor the opportunity to carry the torch for others to see.”
“Sometimes there is only one reason to complete a task,
but thousands of excuses to avoid it.”
“Life's Irony;Most of the people that we greatly admire & that have dared the business world once had initial serious doubts of their ability to conquer the Universe.”
“To be optimistic in failure is better than to be pessimistic in success.”
“Life shouldn't be about making yourself a better person, life should be about bettering your self to be the person you want to be”
“The act of real listening is an art and to be truly listened to and thoroughly understood is a gift".”
“What lies behind us and what lies before us are tiny matters compared to what lies within us.”
“Sometimes in life you have to learn the hard way to understand the best way.”
“Some people make themselves miserable and everybody else miserable when they can rather make themselves happy and everybody else happy?-RVM”
“Remember your days are numbered,so make every moment count.”
“Experiences are elder than Age”
“Stay positive, I know it's not always easy to do but it's the best choice you can make for you, positive thinking can break strongholds and bring release to a clogged mind.”
“Understanding is the best route to forgiveness. Remember that we are all human, we all have fears, we all make mistakes. When in doubt, be kind.”
“Every first step is worth taking.”
“Willingness is essential in any initiation or in making an dream come true. 'I can
t' often means 'I won t.' You can change 'I won t' to 'I will' with willpower.”
“I must hold myself accountable to always be inspired, only then can I dedicate myself to inspire others.”
“I must hold myself accountable to always be inspired, only then can I dedicate myself to inspire others.”
“Rain and Pain never go in Vain! They are just tests before we see GAIN.-RVM”
“The history of free men is never really written by chance but by choice - their choice”
“The day I die will be the day I smile.”
“Sometimes its really hard to breathe even in the fresh air.”
“ One who never fails, fails at failing”
“In The game of Tennis don't the other opponent get a chance to serve? Therefore i tell you, be patient, you will also get your chance in life, be Diligent. By Alphine A Bayoh”
“In The game of Tennis don't the other opponent get a chance to serve? Therefore i tell you, be patient, you will also get your chance in life, be Diligent. By Alphine A Bayoh”
“I prefer a fake smile. Because I wear it most of the time but no one is aware of it.”
“The millions you admire, never find you attractive and the billions that admire you, you never find them attractive either”
“You must be willing to play with Failure before you reach Success.-RVM”
“The universe & I are one in abundance.”
“Giving up means losing, winning with bloating means ignorance, and doing for experience means victory.”
“Contentment is the foundation of true Happiness. The Happiness that comes from fulfilling desires can never be permanent.-RVM”
“When I walk I become a model, the wworld becomes my runway and God is my only judge. .....”
“Sir, my concern is not whether God is on our side; my greatest concern is to be on God's side, for God is always right”
“Sometimes in the of world business we need to lie, be greedy, and be a sinner .... But we are doing it the wrong way... to be successful in business we need to tell the truth, be hardworking, and faith in god...”
“An indecisive mind
is prone to mistakes”
“I was just an inspired "creative person".”
“When the master commissions and the vision are backed up with immediate action there will be no room for omission in the mission statement”
“What is the value of the treasure: if you have the means and no one makes a living in it”
“Any service that lacks passion suffers humiliation and defeat in consequent time”
“When faith is compromised at gun-point life becomes unbearable”
“When you give so much attention to a course it becomes your invention”
“The poor man, who acknowledges his limitation and knows he has nothing to give, has everything to give than the rich man”
“The greatest thing on earth is to trust someone, which is likened to giving your heart to some and knowing that it can be broken but will not be broken”
“Sam is one of those people who lights up a room. He's an absolute inspiration. He definitely leads by example.”
“Achievers are known for their never give up character”
“One day of accomplishment is better than a decade of wastage”
“It is more honourable to fulfill a promise than to make promises”
“An appointment cancelled for later day is better than delayed appointment”
“It’s a sheer-madness for a father not to see his son greater than him”
“The man who said no to sin, cheat, deceit, manipulation, wickedness, hatred, jealousy and pride, has said yes to greatness”
“Life has no joy in it without accomplishment of purpose”
“Ever wanting. Ever longing. Never-ending blue, ... So I'll take the inspiration with the gloom because usually where there's a tear, there's a tune.”
“One unsuccessful attempt to success is a major attempt to success”
“Youthful period is the time to make manful period effective and worth living”
“No mortal is independent; we'll someday need someone to lean on”
“When people have nothing to say about you, it means you don't exist”
“No one will share your dreams until they come to reality; let desire remain effervescent and never despair”
“You are accountable for your own victory or misery”
“If you make sleeping your hobby then poverty becomes your best companion”
“Why are we so quick to limit the possibility of our own happiness?”
“When you call someone an enemy, you make yourself an enemy to someone”
“If you can read, you can lead”
“When curiosity drives you, discoveries will line your path”
“Independence is riches.”
“When life gives you lemons, use them to make orange juice”
“Our Life is like a Boat that can Float. Some Row and Go! Some Blink and Sink!!-RVM”
“Life is mostly tedium interrupted by spikes of excitement, love, and panic. Planning and positive attitude insure more of the first two and less of the last one.
Those spikes are the things memories are made of. Over time those memories will be our most precious possession.”
“Anyone who ever bet against you was wrong. Don’t let their opinion blind you from your reality. You were not meant to live their life; LIVE yours!”
“Fear not what others say about you, but what they aren't.”
“The moment you meet a person a relationship is started or continued from were it was from a past life”
“You don't have to be someone's girlfriend or boyfriend to build a Relationship”
“The idea is, if you put a bunch of great people together, good things will happen.”
“The number one person, you should concentrate on improving is you. Make no mistake about this”
“Never expect to partake in the bounty called change unless,you first change yourself.”
“Be bigger than hurting others, crush our idea of perfectionism and be yourself because that’s when you are most beautiful.”
“Feels like I'm at war with myself, going back and forth, shot after shot but for what nothing, I take three steps up just to get knocked five steps back and I'm tired of it and I'm out of options and out of ammo there's nothing else to do but surrender, I give up.”
“No you didn't give me free. The devil has in-prison thee with false illusions that you hold my free. My God, My God was the one who rosin above inside of me, breaking me forth from the oppression thou poison upon me. You hold not my free, you not my free. God my free. No you didn't!”
“I was more than glad to let my fictitious boyfriend go. I gave him a free pass into my private amusement park, and he rode all my emotional rides. I gracefully asked him to leave, because it was time to let go of what should have happened on the ride, what could happen on the next ride, and what we both new would never happen. I was glad I let him go! I had finally leaned to ride my own emotional rides of life, and not let my emotions ride me. I was glad I let him go.”
“Don't allow people to dictate your happiness or take residence in your mental space. Embrace your strengths and face your weaknesses. Nurture your goodness and challenge your failures. Love yourself dearly and enjoy the greatness in you.”
“A blind man sees not with his eyes, but with his heart. A deaf man hears with his soul and mind, not with his ears. The majority of others see with prejudice and hear with arrogance. If there is no light and sounds travel nowhere, won't we all be the same?”
“"The Ultimate happiness in life is found in appreciating relationships with loved ones while finding your meaning in life by recognizing your personal gifts, your contribution to the world. Striving to become the best version of yourself to better serve and benefit others while keeping in mind that life is a journey, thus enjoying every moment and experience."
-JWS”
“"The real definition of success, does not have any aspect of monetary gain. Simply put, it is working towards becoming the man or women you want to be, while making the necessary changes or advancements towards creating the life of your dreams."
-JWS”
“"MY Vision, MY Purpose, My Life
Is dependent on this moment.
I am disciplined, I am focused, I am relentless
I will Succeed."
-JWS”
“Just as pregnancy reaches its end,the pain & discomfort a woman feels increases,so also in life as trials increases,its end may be near.”
“Acquiring knowledge from others is a best way to develop a determined potential”
“You may not understand it till you know it, yet you may not know it, till you understand it, yet what makes you know is that which makes you understand it, though knowing may not mean understanding.”
“Getting there may not be the issue , but being there , yet keeping there may be easy.”
“Mankind look at their life in three phases, before , now, and after, yet God only looks at life in one phase ‘ now’”
“There is no limit to what can be accomplished if it doesn't matter who gets the credit.”
“Most of the important things in the world have been accomplished by people who have kept on trying when there seemed to be no hope at all.”
“Great things are accomplished by talented people who believe they will accomplish them.”
“You know you are in "love" when you are "naked"!”
“It is by Raising others up that you will Rise”
“We live in an age of excessive sensitivity but insufficient courage.”
“Relinquish the false-misconceived-overrated illusion that yesterday would've been different, if only you would've participated differently. When in fact yesterday was just as it should have been yesterday.”
“People who want More must first have the Courage to Walk out of the Door.-RVM”
“I was out with some friends; and wisdom was there. He approached me, and asked if He could join me. I obliged. He offered to pay for my dinner, if I allowed him to order. I obliged. He ordered me a drink of awareness, a plate of truth, and a dessert of safety. I had the best time ever!”
“Don't look back, you're not going that way!”
“Love is: Doing only good for another regardless of personal cost or sacrifice without becoming and enabler.”
“I think the internet will help bring about world peace. If you have 10 facebook friends in a country, would you feel a bit different about bombing it? The line between "us" and "them" is getting blurry, and for many, it's already disappeared.”
“Knowledge + Actions = Faith”
“When all else fails just use your sail. Life may seem to be drowning you, but in reality you are staying afloat. You soon flail, but then defeat and conquer the obstacle in your way and life resumes on its trail.”
“Being alone does not have to mean that you stand secluded as one. Instead walk forward to be A.L.O.N.E. and always looking onto new experiences as an individual.”
“We salute the Brain, that made the Plane and the Train…But who made the Brain?-RVM”
“A mirror is big enough to show your face,but not your character.”
“The world is filled with passionate people, be one of them.”
“Relinquish the false-misconceived-overrated illusion that yesterday would've been different, if only you would've participated differently. When in fact yesterday was just as it should have been yesterday.”
“God is good, God is great, Thank you God your my mate.”
“Life without Freedom can't go far...it's like a Brake that stops a car!-RVM”
“Before, I was stupid enough to believe a lie. Now, I'm smart enough to believe the truth”
“Don't ever feel that your not good enough for them, they are the ones not good enough for you”
“When going through the worst times to the best times in life, remember that fate is destiny and it's gonna happen, when it does turn on the lights and always see the brightest side”
“No matter how hopeless it would be, I'll stay if there's still a way.”
“People are afraid of what exist in the dark and thats only truth”
“People are afraid of what exist in the dark and thats only truth”
“One step at a time. Focusing on the next step is the best way to avoid overwhelm.”
“Some of us can finds fear in darkness some of us finds peace some of us fear the light some of us finds peace in the light”
“Seek for the Lies in the light and Truth in the dark”
“"What I have found is that Inspiration, bouts of creativity come in cycles, peaking with all aspects in life as they rise and fall in sync.In a sense,it is the same balance seen around us daily,just as the sun cannot shine with the same intensity relentlessly nor can it rain nonstop. One cannot produce at the same level constantly, as seasons come and go, so is life. We must ride the waves, taking advantage of the ups and downs, creating balance comparable to the world around us." -jws”
“LOVE is meant to make you Happy, not sad. What's the use of Love, if it makes you mad!-RVM”
“I think, therefore I am not!”
“A persons will has the capacity to defeat all obstacles life has to offer.”
“We are the masters of our own disasters”
“Never hesitate to extend a helping hand, but don't be afraid to raise a fist in rebellion for what is right.”
“I have never seen unforgiveness be friends with forgiveness. I'm sure I never will.”
“The desire to learn is inborn, not taught”
“The desire to learn is inborn, not taught”
“It is not your opponent but your weaknesses that hurt you the most.”
“Never be too anxious to eventually know the mystery that tomorrow holds,but be patient until tomorrow.”
“The world can never be an interesting place if all remains small thinkers.”
“A man's will does not understand the language called obstacles.”
“Are you just complaining, or are you proposing a solution? Anybody can complain, it takes creativity and guts to propose a solution.”
“If You WISH something from your HEART, U will surely get it one day, just have faith in GOD!!”
“Lies happen because you hide what you really feel or how it really is”
“Lies happen because you hide what you really feel or how it really is”
“Every time I see a man on the streets with nothing left to live for, I often count not my sins nor blessings but my selfish mistakes”
“Birds Fly in the Sky, because they don't know how to Cry! They know just one thing, to Sing!-RVM”
“Failure does not mean you are not worthy of success,but it simply means you are still learning how to be a success.”
“Life's irony;"The person with action is the one whose prayers will be answered.”
“Every being has his own season of breakthrough,if only we persist.”
“If we can't fight for what we want, then we can't have what we need”
“I am not in deficit,for more money is coming into my life than it is going out.”
“People who quit don't succeed. The best way to succeed is to refuse to quit.”
“If we can't do better than what other humans did. We better appreciate what we did better than to fail trying to do better than they did”
“You really need to work hard to be a success”
“Whatever you do in life, echoes thru eternity.”
“Making things hazy can sometimes make you see things clearly, but forgetting is just running away”
“Anything can be achieved in small, deliberate steps. But there are times you need
the courage to take a great leap; you can't cross a chasm in two small jumps.”
“From the development of our world and its ability to hold life, to being born into a species that has our intelligence and physical capabilities. Each one of us fertilized our mother’s egg. We are one in a quadrillion and we should be grateful and satisfied to exist.”
“Those who are not Free, can't even climb a Tree .... Forget about them being what they want to Be!-RVM”
“A positive mind knows no fear.”
“It will be a NEW BEGINNING, the finding of our TRUE nature and the full EXPOSURE of suppression and control. We think that it will be the EVOLUTION stepping stone in the GROWING of OURSELVES and our UNDERSTANDING of this WORLD, the UNIVERSE and ENERGY!
The more believe and feel this way, the more this will be the outcome!”
“If there is one reason anyone can use to commit themselves to growth, change and achievement , its to be afforded the leisure of leisurely travel”
“You never choose the music that is meant for you. It always chooses you.”
“You never choose the music that is meant for you. It always chooses you.”
“Sometimes when something scares us or makes us feel uneasy, it’s because we actually believe there is something true about it… Don’t let it drive you away or hide, embrace the feeling and continue to inform yourself to the point you are no longer scared or are put at unease by the subject.”
“The reason people are often underestimated is because with all the things about a person that can be measured desire is the one thing that can’t be and it’s the one thing that takes us beyond the point measurements predict us to go.”
“The storm will pass and you will be ok, the real challenge is to keep going in the same direction after it.”
“If others win, it doesn't mean that you lose.”
“You failed? Congratulations, you tried something. Keep your head up, keep going, we're pulling for you :)”
“If you are searching for a true happiness, search within yourself.”
“Don't close the door to the past, leave it open and let it go.”
“Regrets are like complaining about the weather - it brings no results.”
“You may not notice it but it doesn't mean that the world does not change because of you.”
“The moment you start being happy for others is the moment your life gets easier.”
“As cynical as I am, it truly bewilders me when people look at cartoons and scoff at friendship. We may not want to admit it but nobody enjoys living solely for themselves. It is because that we can find power in the bonds. We share that we continue fighting, we would be nothing otherwise.”
“When you enjoy little things, it is easier to achieve the big ones.”
“Dreams are good but the reality, where you're making your dreams come true is much better.”
“Others can't tell you, where your heart wants to go.”
“Don't stick with memories, go ahead and create a new ones!”
“We are here to create, not destroy.”
“Sometimes you have to wake up a child in you and let yourself to enjoy the moment!”
“If someone can't accept the way you are, you probably are spending time with the wrong person.”
“The only memories worth keeping are the ones we remember.”
“The only memories worth keeping are the ones we remember.”
“Be deliberate about the environment you allow yourself to be affiliated with! Arthlene Legair”
“When Satan attempts to infiltrate your thought process you have to remind him about Gods truth, he created you for a purpose, you may have to keep reminding yourself about that daily, because these negative thought that are sent to distract you will not go away if you just ignore it,
Believe God's word, it is the irrefutable.”
“Just because you are what you are, where you are, that does not mean you should continue to be there.-RVM”
“Nothing is impossible in life,because the word impossible has been edited from the dictionary of the great.”
“When something seems confusing or does not seem complete… that is because it is a lie or it's planned that way in order to make you feel smaller or inadequate to have an opinion. Nothing, absolutely nothing should be difficult or impossible to make sense of!”
“Once you've done the impossible you realize it doesn't exist.”
“Goals can be reached, I think dreams can too.”
“Positive behavior requires fuel, and everybody's engine is different.”
“"Failure is only determined by everyone else's idea of success. Ones' own success is determined not by the result, but by the degree of effort towards that result. As long as you don't give up and try hard, your not failing; your on the process boat of success" ~ Austin Moman”
“Friends are inspirational while enemies are motivation”
“You can Live in your Cave or Dance to your Grave.-RVM”
“I am a Living Star,for in this life no obstacle shall be big enough to hinder my light to shine for the benefit of humanity.”
“Love is scary and mysterious, but it truly is a beautiful part of life and it is what makes us grow wiser and stronger”
“If there are a million valid reasons why we should not love, then there are a billion reasons to experience it.”
“With some pen and paper we can write down lines that shows the freedom without cages”
“Do not wish to be smart, instead live your life and gain wisdom”
“You will never enter into paradise (jannah, nirvana, swargaloka) before knowing first who create paradise”
“Mistakes make you learn something, make you smarter then before”
“Pure heart more precious than pure gold”
“Be genereous will release your stress more powerfull than you think”
“Gearing up for a future uncertain, unpredicted, unsure, for a future that is certain, predicted and sure.”
“A single knock on your friend's door will most likely open his/her heart”
“Why reach a hand through a window when there is a door”
““I write a sentence not because I want to change someone, but because I want them to make their decisions without regret””
“We permit Limitations to Limit us, instead of Limiting our Limitations.-RVM”
“You can say all you want to someone to get them to see, but it won't change their eyes or their doubt, all you can do is plant the seed.”
“When you fail to PROVE, just imPROVE”
“There is always something Right in something that is Wrong and something Wrong in something that is Right.-RVM”
“Nothing Impossible b'coz. impossible Say's I M POSSIBLE”
“Why should I believe in the anythings of your world. When you downright refuse to believe in my everything in God.”
“I don't write so you can believe. I write so you can receive.”
“Allow yourself the Freedom to Fail before you see Success Sail!-RVM”
“Do not look for endorsement from others if God has already shown you his will for your life! Trust and believe in God and he will confirm his promise to you. Arthlene Legair.”
““How special are we to create, a darling new life from our love””
“If you wanna earn millions, you gotta be worth millions.”
“Nobody cares if you can't dance well. Just get up and dance.”
“You are NOT helpless, outnumbered or exposed… you never have been! All actions are sparked by a simple “thought” and are enacted with a “decision”. By informing yourself and sharing something you are no longer helpless and have already sparked an action to effect or change. You simply cannot be “outnumbered” as you are NOT a “number” and you can only be “exposed” if you are hiding or ignoring to start with…”
“Never let your mind get into a race with your body. The latter will always lose.”
“Our finest moments are most likely to occur when we are feeling deeply uncomfortable with the challenge ahead. For it is only in such moments, propelled by our discomfort and disbelief that we are likely to step out of the common practice and search for the different ways or truer answers that bring us along a path of success.”
“Rampant stems pruned bears life to a new rose.”
“We are all capable of doing anything if there is a will.”
“Following people's quotes & advices won't get you anywhere, if you really want to do something, then just go ahead & do it.”
“Do not let anyone steer you off the path of your dreams, even if they call you a fool. Those who disband their dreams are worse than fools!”
“It won't get better until you don't care, you still care so it still hurts”
“Life is like a game of cards. The hand that is dealt you represents determinism;
the way you play it is free will.”
“The man I am today it's not the man of yesterday”
“NO MATTER HOW FAST YOU RUN ON THE WRONG ROAD, YOU NEVER GET TO YOUR DESTINATION. ON THE RIGHT ROAD, TIME GETS YOU THERE.”
“Hold Every Person Close to Your Heart Because One Day You May Wake Up and Realize That You've Lost a Diamond While You Were Too Busy Collecting Stones. No two persons are the same.”
“IF YOU REFUSE TO LEAVE UP YOUR GOD GIVEN POTENTIAL, DO NOT CALL PEOPLE WHO DO AS GENIUS”
“Whatever you become in this world depends greatly on you more than your parents. The Choices you make defines you.”
“HE WILL BE WITH YOU in THE STORMS if YOU SEEK HIM in THE SUNSHINE”
“Faith that can't be tested is Faith that can't be trusted”
“If ignorance is really bliss, then I don't understand where all this sadness is coming from.”
“Sky has been captured. Beyond the sky is your success.
Rajiv Sharma”
“Dreams are something that comes naturally, But hopes is what is really important to the human nature”
“One way to endure success is to build an excellent goal with a good heart of accomplishment”
“...TRUTH, should therefore be our ultimate Religion...”
“When the inner Spirit has Liberation, Inspiration is born!-RVM”
“‘’ The more obstacles you beat; the more goals you achieve. ‘’ “Radi Albalawneh””
“‘’I believe that it’s not difficult to do what you think is right for you; not for the people , you just have to believe in your abilities to convince them that you are doing it for yourself not for them. And here comes the real fight to prove who you really are; who you really want to be and live happily ever after.’’
“Radi Albalawneh””
“When two people love each other, they don't look at each other, they look in the same direction”
“How many chances will you take crossing the imaginary chalk line before you eventually fall off?”
“When people grow close together, not just physically, but mentally, emotionally and spiritually, the ultimate relationship has been made.”
“Everybody counts—the Happy ones Count their Blessings and the sad ones Count their Troubles.-RVM”
“I sat by the river and silence heard my thoughts.”
“What you truly are cannot be explained- only experienced”
“You're the anchor holding me down, but I'm the sailor to my own ship”
“If you make it a Habit to make your Today better than your Yesterday, then for sure, your Tomorrow will be better than your Today.-RVM”
“That the ultimate goal for anyone and any group should be, LOVE, granting others TO BE, KNOWLEDGE and most of all TRUTH. Real HONESTY and TRUTH, towards others and most of all yourself seems to be the key to freedom and should therefore be our ultimate “Religion”.”
“Our biggest enemies in life are anger, fear and panic.”
“Doubt kills more dreams than failure ever will”
“Have faith in your skills, negative thoughts kill. Self-doubt will kill your dreams before others do.”
“It is not important how long we live but how well we Live. Add Meaning to your Life each day.-RVM”
“If ever there is a chance to be there or simply let someone know you care Don’t Wait, Do It Today, Since Forever Can Be Such A Long Time”
“Save your words for people who deserve to hear it!”
“Silence is more powerful than any word ever spoken.”
“Within us is Energy which when channelized, spirals into Inspiration. -RVM”
“To continue to live my life in the shadow of your opinion can only rob me of my purpose. Today I choose to step beyond the shadow and embrace my destiny in Christ”
“All in all, time really seems to be a personal consideration and the HAPPIER we are, the LESS we are BOUND to this consideration, so the experience of TIME CHANGES too...”
“Don't live a dull boring life. Spice it up. You don't have too much of it left.-RVM”
“Can anyone remember love? It's like trying to summon up the smell of roses in a cellar. You might see a rose, but never the perfume.”
“To live life beautifully and fair is to live life with answerable questions.”
“Sometimes it's good to be mean but to be mean isn't good for you it describe of who you are.”
“Love just like you love yourself.”
“I find that it is not the circumstances in which we are placed, but the spirit in
which we face them, that constitutes our comfort.”
“Love comes at the right time, right place and at the right person.”
“Love describe at two words trust and faith.”
“The most painful and tearful part of you is the pain inside, you can never see it but you can feel it.”
“There is no greater way to invest in the future than by acquiring and sharing knowledge within every sphere of life. Learning will always be a continuous process and in doing so, you become awakened to the world at large.”
“Look deep inside yourself to find your purpose, not with your eyes, but your soul”
“Life is not a puzzle to solve. Stop, Enjoy the Journey!-RVM”
“So live and do what makes you to be more like Christ to be Holy instead of living life to make yourself happy. Cause this life is only an introduction to the next eternal life. For you can't enter heaven if you yourself live to be happy and not Holy when your Father in Heaven is Holy. Don't miss your destiny by worldly teachings!”
“Love is beautiful only when it is real.”
“I am waiting for that Morning, when Me and my Dream both will be together.”
“Be a good listener, so that you can speak well.”
“given a reason or an excuse, one will do whatever you ask them for”
“If you can't afford to lose, you can't afford to play.
If you can't afford to play, you can't afford to win!”
“THE WORLD IS FULL OF OPEN DOORS,you just have to get off your ass and walk through with hunger of success,be the leader not the follower.”
“Your imagination is the joy residing in your subconscious being that gives you strength.”
“God gave us the Trees, the Breeze and the Seas. Let’s not forget to pay our fees!-RVM”
“Chrysler is a brand built on inspiration and innovation. We are excited to launch this new competition that will showcase the great lineup of Chrysler vehicles in a fun and engaging way, while providing an opportunity for players to show their own personal inspirations.”
“Life's Irony;Instead of man focusing his mind on how wealth will transform his life,he instead focuses on how poverty will be detrimental to his life & then poverty becomes his lot.”
“It is Ignorant to try and discuss, argue or even fight with someone Ignorant!”
“Writing is at its best when writing it is like reading it.”
“I do everything content.”
“Life is not only about copying others. But having a crazy idea, an impossible ideea, to dedicate your whole life to bring that dream, that impossible idea into reality. Because everything was "impossible" before being discovered. And everything is now impossible until someone will discover a way to make it real.”
“All have dreams,
Some follow it,
Some are denied of it,
Some don't have the courage to execute it,
And Some allow their dreams to die,
Its upto you whether you want to be or not to be.”
“Try to firm up happiness future”
“Far more than the shield is the Pleasure I get on the field . . . the Joy of the chase is greater than the result of the race.-RVM”
“The secret of success in life is by following the consistent road to your dream mansion.”
“The current wealth we are witnessing in the world today is not what should be,but rather what man has limited in his mind.”
“As long as your positive dreams will not bring the sky down,it is a worthwhile & noble venture to undertake.”
“The beginning and first step to happiness, is, to start thinking,
that it is NOT systematically the mistake of others...”
“Look around! People have faces with no smiles, as if they are carrying heavy baggage. Stop them! Give them a SMILE and see them Light up.-RVM”
“We are all products of help. Our caregivers gave us 100% help before we can learn to eat, sit and toddle.
They didn't know everything but they provided whatever they had, so we can.
We don't need everything to help others but we just need something to make them happy.”
“Matured mind is much better than beauty physical appearance and well developed body when comes to decision making processes.”
“Your only limitation is your imagination.”
“Our daily actions shape the way people know us. Make sure they are good ones.”
“Each child is a "star", they can only shine when they seek the light within themselves.”
“Everyone is a STAR that represents Individuality as well as togetherness to shine above everyone else.”
“First: seek within.”
“1st: seek within.”
“For you to lead a more productive, happier and fulfilled life you have to become comfortable about being uncomfortable and uncomfortable about being comfortable.”
“For you to lead a more productive, happier and fulfilled life you have to become comfortable about being uncomfortable and uncomfortable about being comfortable.”
“Why don't you hang on for dear life, and then let it all go? Because the fall is so much more exhilarating when you know what you're no longer missing.”
“Just stay with me tonight. And in the morning if your mind is still made up you can go. Oh and take my jacket too. It's ugly outside.”
“I touch only what I wish to reach.”
“Music, imagery and literature go hand in hand. A book is like a poem. A poem is like a song. A song is like a music video. A music video is like a movie. A movie is like a book. There is no one way to tell a story, and storytelling is the most beautiful form of expression, and the truest form of art.”
“Music, imagery and literature go hand in hand. A book is like a poem. A poem is like a song. A song is like a music video. A music video is like a movie. A movie is like a book. There is no one way to tell a story, and storytelling is the most beautiful form of expression, and the truest form of art.”
“If you want something in life, you've got to grab it.”
“Once you've learned to see past physical beauty... You'll be the most beautiful person in the world.”
“Rather than wasting time on yesterday that is gone, it is better to invest your time in tomorrow that is not yet born.-RVM”
“The experience of time is what we make of it and the more we live in the NOW the more we can benefit from this magical illusion.”
“The irony is that we are busy doing many things that don’t matter and we have no time for things that do. Shouldn’t we reverse it?-RVM”
“Don't let your Bad Dream Change you, let you change your bad dream.”
“Success doesn’t come from motivation. It comes from Inspiration.-RVM”
“Possibility thinkers never use the word impossible because they know for sure that all impossible dreams for now, can be made possible with a possible mind.”
“Don't waist time beating yourself up, the world will do it for you.”
“You can become famous in seconds or you can't in your whole life....... Becoming famous shouldn't be your goal but becoming a person who can become famous...”
“You can become famous in seconds or you can't in your whole life....... Becoming famous shouldn't be your goal but becoming a person who can become famous...”
“One persons initiative is sometimes enough to fuel the forward momentum of many.”
“Wants will one have and wants will one think they need. But until one can control their wants, one will never succeed.”
“A good work ethic and sound knowledge,in various areas, appears to be the the common denominator in many great spirits.”
“The life and world we live in, is part of an uncontrollable repeat.”
“It's not a question of 'what can you be?', but rather 'where do
you want to apply yourself?'.”
“Keep doing what you do best and you’ll be the best at what you do, which is simply yet impeccably being you!!!”
“Think of Today, not Tomorrow. It’s time to be Happy, not live a Life of Sorrow. Find out those things that make you Glad & eliminate those that make you Sad.-RVM”
“Do what you do best and you'll be the best at what you do, which is simply yet impeccably being you.”
“Yesterday is history, tomorrow is a mystery, but today is a gift, that is why we call it present.”
“Deconstructing is difficult and sometime painful; Rebuilding is an opportunity to grow and champion new concepts.”
“My smile is my only wealth.”
“Most people lose the only thing they possess—Life—while acquiring the many things that will finally never be theirs.-RVM”
“The fight is NOT against povery. The fight is against a political and economic system that generates poverty.”
“He’s a chip off the old block, I just don’t know which one!”
“That apple didn’t fall from the tree and I think it landed right on Mom’s head!”
“Dummy's around fake hello hi”
“Sometimes you have to grieve and let go of the path you have envisioned, and prepare yourself for another journey. It will not be what you expected, but it is still going to be amazing.”
“Life is a grasp of chance.”
“Life is grasp of chance... take it!”
“Life is a grasp at chance... take it!”
“Life is a grab of chance.... own it!”
“Life is a grab.... own it!”
“Satisfaction is richness”
“If pitying means doing nothing, then helping means doing everything.”
“Conquer the world but first yourself.”
“To be persistent & determined are the tools needed to work out your dreams.”
“When people despise you because of the shape of your face or the color of your skin,be grateful ,for this is enough impetus to enable you to dream bigger.”
“Try your best to make a difference in the world, before it becomes illegal.”
“Many people age into a cage. They suddenly feel helpless waiting for death because they have no reason to live.-RVM”
“You want something? Fight for it. End of story”
“I understand that quotes and sayings are just words written together on a page trying to say something real, but once you start to write them yourself, write your past and your feelings... they become a part a lot more than just words. They become
meaningful.”
“It’s great to earn, but don’t leave it behind for someone else to burn.-RVM”
“Know your destiny then the destination is unimportant.”
“Knowledge and experience make us patient and ability to control ourself”
“It is ironic that we are particular about flushing out all the dirt through the Drain, but we continue to retain a lot of it in our Brain.-RVM”
“Positive Power can inspire; Negative Power can perspire. Which power are you on?-RVM”
“A soul is the collection of feelings, emotions and experience one has in them to carry to judgement. What does your soul speak of when asked to testify in judgment of your heart?”
“Actions without thought is ignorance, ignorance without purity is Sin, Sin without humility is true death”
“Conquer all fears by adapting to the unknown and accepting what is known.”
“Don't fear your imagination, embrace it.”
“There are many who live Life in Fear, without taking risks. They don’t take chances. Alas! not only are they missing chances, they are missing Life itself!-RVM”
“Everybody has a different view of the word "forever". Find the one whose forever means the same as your. That is what love is all about.”
“Don't be a product of your surrounding, instead strive to make your surroundings a product of you”
“If your not willing to risk it all for a cause then the love for or passion for the cause is not real”
“A smile that is forged in the flames of pain and the brimstone of hate will always conquer the hearts of the ones that stands against it.”
“Family is not defined by blood but by the love shared in veins of the indivduals”
“A fool stares up looking at the sky stating its the limit, a idiots look down at the ground stating a strong foundation is all that's needed, a jaded person looks behind him saying the past is always present and a determined person looks ahead ignoring all else around him. A wise man looks in all directions analyzing the 360 view of his goals and not forgetting his past, his foundation, his limits or his focus on achieving what his desires”
“Life is a roll of the dice, you take your chances and plan the next move till the odds are in your favor.”
“You can't change your past but you are in control of your future & the choices that you make so choose wisely.T.B”
“It is better to know defeat than to know nothing at all.”
“Change can only be achieved if one actually changes.”
“Change can only be achieved if one actually changes.”
“By three methods we may learn wisdom: First, by reflection, which is noblest;
Second, by imitation, which is easiest; and third by experience, which is the
bitterest.”
“There used to be a time when we were treated unfairly, we would march and fight for our rights. Now when we are treated unfairly people are scared to speak up. When you don't stand up because you don't want to rock the boat you will eventually drown.”
“You would never appreciate happiness if you didn't suffer a little first.”
“Unfortunately there are people in this world who want to see you fail because of their inadequacies. We are supposed to lift each other up, guide each other, and support one another. You should never have to dumb yourself down to make someone else feel good. You shouldn't be silenced because you have the ability to advocate for yourself and others find it difficult.”
“Always be loyal to the ones you love. Because if you betray them, you've betrayed yourself..”
“Don't teach your kids not to fall, teach them how to get up.”
“Anything in life is possible, you just have to find the steps to get there.”
“Dream big so what you do achieve is greater than what anyone thought you could”
“Some people find life boring, there’s too much time. Few find Life so exciting that there’s no time at all and Life just zooms by.-RVM”
“If nobody ever believes in you,never mind, just have a dream & make it come to pass & they will come in droves believing in you.”
“Life isn’t about the brand of clothes you wear or about who has the best phone or about who has the most money. It’s about the number of faces which smile when they hear your name”
“Things will happen. You can't stop them from happening, but you can control your reaction from making things worse. React Positively. Live Happily.-RVM”
“Wherever a person exists, there must be light to guide his or her way. So when you lose a loved one, just look at the sky and see how your loved one has gained a star to watch over you.”
“If we learn to understand, we can learn to love without understanding.”
“If we learn to understand, we can learn to love without understanding.”
“Sin has a bottomless mouth, the more you feed it the bigger it becomes.”
“I'm tired of listening to you talk about the song you like, the song you listen to. Sing the song so I can dance.”
“The Richest person is not the Happiest person, the Happiest person is the Richest person.-RVM”
“Our subconscious beings can deliver answers to every challenges bedeviling man in the world in a moment,but the problems are it's either we are not in tune to the station or channel it will deliver the answers to or we are not bold enough to carry out it's instructions.”
“Basking in your past glories or regretting your past failures is as fruitless as trying to hold up the rain”
“There is no loss in having hope,while having no hope is being at loss”
“Failure is not a fatality.Infact it's a step before success”
“Shadows move according to the angle of light.If shadows are like problem to life,adressing a problem at the right angle is the key to the solution”
“Don't try to fit in, because that's impossible. Fit in on your OWN terms, because no matter what other people say, your human too. Take a step back, get over your ego, & accept that. There are people who have a hard time getting through their life, so who are you to try and make it harder for them? One wrong word, you lead them closer and closer to their grave. Society can change, just as people can. We are what makes society, don't let society make us.”
“Bullying is like murder. It's one of the slowest most painful torture life has to offer, but, maybe, we can make this endless torture stop. We can stop spitting out words of hate & using our fists to hurt others. We can accept. It is possible.”
“A wise teacher never teaches everything but a curious student learns them anyways.”
“It's as simple. Figure it out.”
“It's as simple. Figure it out.”
“Selling is simply the transfer of inthusiasm.”
“You can never have an opinion on anything unless you know everything about what your opinion is on.”
“Should we be extracting from earths body?
Isn’t the answer clear and simple?
You wouldn’t let anyone abuse your body, would you?”
“Should we be extracting from earths body?
Isn’t the answer clear and simple?
You wouldn’t let anyone abuse your body, would you?”
“The Gift of Life is a Treasure. Some fill it with Pressure . . . some with Pleasure!-RVM”
“changing is easier than staying the same, think about it.”
“changing is easier than staying the same, think about it.”
“Life is like a game of Chess, you have to strategically plan your next move.”
“It is a matter of living; living strong; living smart; living with the presence of God each day”
“Love isn't a want. It is a need. You need love to survive the pain and cruelty of the world. With love, comes happiness.”
“Remember this, if you forget, a woman will never forget you forgot. But, if you misremember then she will remember you didn't remember. In short, it is best to misremember and not forget.”
“Keep it global my friends....Keep it global”
“Knowing what you believe to be right is only half of what you must learn. Knowing what the true divine right is is the final half of what you will learn in your lifetime.”
“Before you change others, change yourself.”
“Every life form is touched by the same warmth, Sun. Every life form is fused with the same breath, Oxygen. Every life form is housed by the same home, Earth. Let your Soul awaken to your existence.”
“Although every citizen celebrates their diversity regardless of race, religion, tribe, caste, gender and status; we move forwards as one nation.”
“Some people emit negative fumes, while others vibrate POSITIVE ENERGY. Stay close to the Positive ones; otherwise you will be smoked to death.-RVM”
“A universal law: Once a honey bee stings, it dies.
In the same way when you try to harm others, part of you dies. Live life in a manner which uplifts others, thereby uplifting yourself.”
“We try and escape when we should be breaking free.”
“We try and escape when we should be breaking free.”
“There is a cure for everything, remember that, I'm just waiting on you, to create it.”
“If you tell yourself you cannot start over again, remind yourself, that there is always a tomorrow.”
“If you tell yourself you cannot start over again, remind yourself, that there is always a tomorrow.”
“Do not worry for tomorrow, for God will surely give your needs”
“The big bang is 1 absolute intention of unconditional love”
“Where nothing works, there Team works.”
“Faith that cannot be tested is Faith that cannot be trusted”
“Look around you. While dogs bark, birds sing and fly. People will talk; Don’t worry. You just walk- Just Fly!-RVM”
“You will either step forward into growth or you will step back into safety”
“Change is hard, really, really hard. But once you feel the benefit of even the tiniest change you have made, you realise there is absolutely no going back….ever.”
“We get so wrapped up in what's wrong in our life, we don't give a moments thought to what's good in our life. Concentrate on the good and more good will follow”
“For me, happiness is waking up excited even though you have no particular place to go…..”
“if you don't dream big you can't make it small”
“Don't be scared of everybody, remember they're somebody.”
“Live the way you want to live, focus only on now, everything becomes clear.”
“Live the way you want to live, focus only on now, everything becomes clear.”
“Google wouldn't be Google unless we used it.”
“Google wouldn't be Google unless we used it.”
“Love your friends, your friends love who you are, if they don't understand then get new friends.”
“Love your friends, your friends love who you are, if they don't understand then get new friends.”
“To me, we must learn to spell the word RESPECT. We must respect the rights and properties of our fellowman. And then learn to play the game of life, as well as the game of athletics, according to the rules of society. If you can take that and put it into practice in the community in which you live, then, to me you have won the greatest championship.”
“Men and women are different, right? Then get your own space and enjoy each others"”
“I use fluoride to wash, feed and hydrate myself... I mean water sorry, or am I?”
“I use fluoride to wash, feed and hydrate myself... I mean water sorry, or am I?”
“Education to me is a 150+ year old out of date system, I didn't go onto higher education not because I wasn't smart, I understood this killed creativity.
I have taught myself what I know and I am proud.”
“Education to me is a 150+ year old out of date system, I didn't go onto higher education not because I wasn't smart, I understood this killed creativity.
I have taught myself what I know and I am proud.”
“A moment spent in Sorrow or a moment spent in Pain is a waste of a Great Treasure that you will never get again.-RVM”
“It makes no difference what you dream about or who supports you,but the most important thing is that with focus & persistence,your dreams shall eventually manifest itself in due season.”
“The pursuit of Entrepreneurship is much like following a religion...just because you've been praying for years and haven't gotten any tangibles to show for your years of worship, you don't stop believing. It is a matter of FAITH.”
“Nobody questions the world, the world questions you.”
“Love The Heart Love The God”
“You can follow other people's footsteps, but most importantly be yourself.”
“Dreaming is wonderful, goal setting is crucial, but action is supreme. To make
something great happen you must get busy and make it happen. Take that action
step today that will put you on your path to achievement.”
“Life is not just to run and run, it is also not just to have fun. Life is complete when we get something worthwhile done.-RVM”
“Self-medicating with drugs allows the offender a place to repeatedly impose the same violent act. If you really want to be free from the drugs, you must not continue to prison the offender."”
“Life is a maze. Don't just gaze. Change your pace, to win the race.-RVM”
“Have more links than html, it's the key to success.”
“Something to hear, something to listen,
Something to see, something to watch,
Something to touch, something to feel,
Something to fear, something to believe,
Something to have, something to love,
If we only understand the difference.”
“First, know where you want to go. Then, go where you want to go. You are your own pilot and you can choose your Destination.-RVM”
“It is thinking & not the bagging of P.H.D degrees that can actually liberate the mind.”
“You cannot control the world outside you!”
“Some people don't Think; they blink and sink! TAKE CHARGE and LIVE!-RVM”
“Think of God when you are well, and he will remember you then when you feel bad ...”
“Choices. There are two kinds; the right ones which pay off & the wrong ones which we pay for dearly.”
“Each new day we are given is a free gift. Imagine how hard we would work, how far we would get & how much we would accomplish if we had to earn each new day.”
“In most cases it's our own mistakes that let us down, but we blame others for that. It is because we are not wise enough to realise the consequences of our own actions.”
“Only a fool with the power to invoke positive changes would continue downhill with the status quo.”
“Do not be afraid of your past, Be proud of your future”
“We are made together with flesh and bones, but held together by hope and prayer.”
“Worries come and worries go…They challenge us and make us Grow!-RVM”
“When you find out why your heart keeps hurting you with silence, you'll find out why others hurt your heart.”
“A heart filled with wisdom is a heart that will help others discover who they are.”
“Being "calculative" is the need in today's world!”
“Peaceful thoughts lead to a peaceful life. Thoughts of abundance lead to a rich life. Happy and healthy thoughts lead to a life of good health and vitality. The world you create around you is a reflection of the world created inside of you.”
“When Passion meets Inspiration, an Obsession is born.-RVM”
“Don't belive in everything you know.”
“Keep on looking up,because there is always a way to fly!”
“It's better to put a bug in someone's ear than make a speech”
“The story of money is very funny. Others burn what we earn. Why not give as we live, so the world will cry when we die.-RVM”
“To not be bedevilled with inferior thoughts,to believe only in the best,to dream dreams without fear & to always assist the helpless is to live life to the fullest.”
“Don't run away from your mistakes. Fix them, learn from them and understand what you need to do to get past them. This is the only formula of success.”
“The more you try to keep silence, the more shall you suffer!”
““Sometimes me think, 'what is friend?’ and then me say, ‘Friend is someone to share the last cookie with.’””
“There is a great beauty in simplicity.”
“India of the ages is not dead nor has she spoken her last creative word; she lives and has still something to do for herself and the human peoples.”
“"The future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams." - Eleanor Roosevelt.”
“Move on, don’t let the little things of Life hold you back. Forget, Forgive, and Move on.-RVM”
“Life's irony;You spend 2x more energy trying to be like other people than actually being yourself & just being yourself can actually make you 2x greater than the people you desire to be like.”
“Love and work...work and love, that's all there is.”
“You can that one man insult you and hurt you and you can let that dwell in your mind forever or you can let it go and let the others make you smile and let that joy linger forever.”
“Never be ashamed of who you are, it is society that is a shame for not allowing us to just be.”
“In pursuit of what we want in life, we sometimes forget the little things that bring the things to us.”
“Peace is not the only answer to any situation!”
“Inspiration does not erupt suddenly, it follows the process of birth.”
“Birds fly because they believe they can. All they have to do is open their wings and fly. You can too.-RVM”
“My word is my legacy.”
“We don't know Where God is, Who God is or What God is… BUT GOD IS!-RVM”
“If we do not strive for perfection, then what is the point?”
“love is never blind. because love is always aware,
and if you're never aware, you will always be blind.”
“In order for others to believe they must first believe that you believe.”
“Ignorance is the lack of knowledge, stupidity is having the knowledge but refusing to use it”
“Maybe it's not people that change, but your perception that changes”
“any fool can preach without commitment but it takes someone special to commit to what he is preaching”
“ANY FOOL CAN PREACH WITHOUT COMMITMENT,BUT IT TAKES SOMEONE SPECIAL TO COMMIT TO HIS PREACHING”
“In three words I can sum up everything I've learned about life. It goes on.”
“Worry not about tomorrow but rather, plan for tomorrow today.”
“The thoughts I allow to filter through my mind has the potentials to reflect itself in my real world at a predestined time.Hence I will think only thoughts that are beneficial to humanity & not otherwise,now that I know that,I am my thoughts.”
“Life is not meant to just zoom from the womb to the tomb. Slow down... Enjoy the Journey!-RVM”
“Learn to rule not to be ruled”
“Think about heaven, and you want catch hell”
“People can't accept the new you, because they're so busy being the old them.”
“Fear is just a challenge that asks to be conquered”
“"The answers don't lie on the ground where the cracks are, they are in the sky where it is clear".”
“Some people are so busy with life that they just forget to live.-RVM”
“I know because I believe, I believe, because I have faith.”
“You can do whatever you want- you just have to accomplish it to say you have done it”
“You can only become truly accomplished at something you love. Don't make money your goal. Instead, pursue the things you love doing, and then do them so well that people can't take their eyes off you.”
“When we think of ten wrong things about someone, we find us surrounded with only hundreds of negative thoughts about our own identity. But the moment we think of even one good thing about them, we find thousands of good things in us and our environment become positive!!”
“The well-run group is not a battlefield of egos.”
“Celebrate Life. To truly live, Celebrate each day of Life. Let each day be a Festival of Joy.-RVM”
“There are those who have the ability to fly. And then, there are those who have the courage to soar. Will you fly or will you soar?”
“Happiness is a shadow. If you chase it, it moves further away. But if you turn to make others happy, it will follow you. Make others Happy and be Happy.-RVM”
“Strong structure is the ace that is laborious to build and yet comfortable for those who interpret the underlying rules that must be observed.”
“You can only do better from the point of where you are.”
“Take away the spirit of a man, and you take away the man.”
“Opportunity stations itself on the way for the mind that thinks, the hands that till and the body that sweats.”
“I was already on the right track, but now I'm actually running”
“No ophthalmologist, no osteopathic doctor, no eye surgery—and no prescriptions for eyeglasses or contact lenses—can correct a person whose mind’s eye is blind.”
“A problem-free life does not exist. If your life has no problems, you are not truly alive, and that’s a Big problem! -RVM”
“To graze in herd is the task of buffalos and sheep, a lion does not mind roaring even if he is alone.”
“You have to Stand out to be outstanding.”
“Wow the second half of my life is half over... it's time to get to work!”
“The only way you can do something is that you do it.”
“Every ache, every pain, every breath, is another step to death.”
“Use(knowledge,worship) when the time comes but don not use before, otherwise the result will be critical.”
“Change is the purpose for living”
“Alone we can't change the world but together we can own it.”
“Alone we can't change the world but together we can own it.”
“Alone we can't change the world but together we can own it.”
“Losing your temper doesn't have to be due to something negative, you can lose it out of joy, and happiness too. U just have to learn how to lose it in a good way. Be positive How? Educate yourself. ”
“If you "recap", everything was "temporary"!”
“Reflect on your past as a lesson not a way of being. Learn from it. It's the only way you can really move on and move up with yourself and life. If you do, then everything else will fall into place.”
“Revolution starts within our own heart, not on the street”
“Powerful and Positive thoughts create Pure and Transcendental emotions that can instantly connect two individual soul in different part of this world or universe through the medium of love”
“The idea is, if you put a bunch of great people together, good things will happen.”
“I choose no to live a below par life as mediocrity is never for once tolerated out here.”
“I choose no to live a below par life as mediocrity is never for once tolerated out here.”
“Make the right choice, and if you can't make the right choice, choose the righteous one.”
“He who is plenteously provided for from within, needs but little from without.”
“Players only learn how to play by constantly losing a match. That's why the most inexperienced players should continue to challenge the most experienced.”
“I was told follow my dreams. So I looked up the definition of dream and saw that it meant to think, consider, contemplate, and conceive. After acknowledging that I had done all those things I decided to believe and be.”
“Whatever flies your rocket.”
“We were really inspired by the Lord to open this place. We originally bought it in 2003. We had it for so long and all these delays kept happening. There was a burglary, and we had to take care of our foster kids, but we never gave up. We just kept going, and that's what we want to let others know.”
“My thoughts are mine & mine alone,hence no man can take them away from me as long as am alive,but they can only benefit from the fruits they will yield.”
“If your mind has not fully appreciated a cause or a dream,going ahead to execute it will be like building a house without a foundation.”
“Even if you presently lack money,think that you don't lack & your thoughts can actually make you never to lack money again.”
“Our tomorrow is always overburdened because we humans love to procastinate today.”
“Expect A Miracle Today…
Because You Are One…”
“I may not be happy at the end of each story but I rarely regret. Not because I have been perfect, because I have always tried to be "Me Myself" in each and every episode of that story.”
“The reason to live should be the reason to die for.”
“To teach is great, but to inspire is divine.”
“KNOWLEDGE is and remains the greatest treasure for any conscious individual, community and nation with an ambitious vision; it is the ultimate legacy of man's existence on the planet Earth”
“I just want to be the shadow of each relation in my life. No matters how many colors my relation gets paint with, my shadow won't change its color.”
“It is good to recognize your negative character traits. Not attempting to change them for the better is the attitude of a dismal individual.”
“What does your direct experience tell you about seeking a person or a place in the future? The very act of doing so means that you choose to tell yourself that things are not okay right
now. This creates an inner conflict with yourself as you resist reality. It is like saying to the present moment “I WANT this," and reality replies “Okay, you WANT this.” And, once more, nothing changes. There you are, wanting, resisting, and challenging the essence of life that is unfolding in front of you.”
“You wanna know how to turn yourself into a better person,then, instead of looking outside the window ,start looking in a mirror, the one that is located within your own heart”
“Today, I will look around & enjoy all the beautiful things that are around me rather than yearn for things that are beyond my control & become miserable.-RVM”
“The Walk:
Where are you going old man;
your last walk was far, yet so near.
Where did you come from old man;
your first walk was so far from here.
Where are you now, a New man;
as one day.... all shall walk to there.
Where did you go?”
“What does your direct experience tell you about seeking a person or a place in the future? The very act of doing so means that you choose to tell yourself that things are not okay right
now. This creates an inner conflict with yourself as you resist reality. It is like saying to the present moment “I WANT this," and reality replies “Okay, you WANT this.” And, once more, nothing changes. There you are, wanting, resisting, and challenging the essence of life that is unfolding in front of you.”
“I'm not an artist, I'm just passionate.”
“All of what is, was, and ever will be, I wonder, is it all because I am?”
“Don't be so busy making a living that you forget to enjoy your Life. Today, make a commitment to Enjoy Life.-RVM”
“When you are at point A & desire to get to point B,you must first think about point B to get there.”
“There is abundant opportunity for me to be a success in life & that opportunity may surface today.”
“The power to declare can begeth you the power to become.”
“The consistency of the consistent shall enable them to birth a consistent success.”
“Young men's love then lies not truly in their hearts, but in their eyes.”
“Joy and Bliss can come from the little and most unexpected things if only we Program our Mind to enjoy these little things.-RVM”
“When one has experienced the painful veil that hinders understanding, one will accept that intellect is a gift from God”
“I do not want to forget my moment of weakness so that when I have made it I remember it was by grace”
“You have a truth inside of you which never changes. It is the essence of who you are. The mind resists this, precipitated by sometimes even the most subtle forms of fear which are engrained in your biological makeup over generations, and your life history. Science shows that along with man, consciousness is evolving. Through mindful awareness, we have more choice and flexibility in what we do with our attention. This means that there is always an opportunity to better the world we share.”
“Decide to be HAPPY when you start your day. Commit to put JOY in whatever comes your way. You may be hurt by what people say, but don’t let anyone spoil your Day. -RVM”
“The more time we spend counting the sands of time, the less time we have too admire the oceans of life...”
“When pondering the limits of the universe, we are confronted by more questions then answers, consider the impossible, perhaps our questions are the answers...”
“Encourage the dreamer and he will dream the best.”
“In my opinion this life is our pre-school and we are all students, if we fail too pass our destiny, we will forfeit graduation and return too earth...”
“Fear is what's gonna lock you up in your coffin and bury you alive, unless you decide to storm out of it as soon as possible.”
“Inspiration creates Passion that converts negative poison into Positive Power.-RVM”
“DISCOVERY. We should think, travel, exist off the beaten path, because that is where the next great ideas are. It's a habit for me now! Even inventions are not really our own, but they are results of ideas already set in motion by the universe, just waiting to be discovered.”
“See your life as it is from an objective perspective.
Be aware of what is beautiful in life, YOUR life.
Don't forget, you can't run away from your head.
Give yourself a reason not to have to.”
“See your life as it is from an objective perspective.
Be aware of what is beautiful in life, YOUR life.
Don't forget, you can't run away from your head.
Give yourself a reason not to have to.”
“Some people are inspired more to do something by those that put down than by those that inspire”
“Great innovators and original thinkers and artists attract the wrath of mediocrities as lightning rods draw the flashes.”
“Money? Earn it.
Environment? Maintain it.”
“Salvation cometh when we begin to view things with the eyes of truth.”
“Life's Irony;It is dangerous to fear to dream big in this very short & uncertain life.”
“I seek not your admiration, but your emulation.”
“Lifting lives, 140 characters at a time... [Social Media, Twitter]”
“Lifting lives, 140 characters at a time... [Social Media, Twitter]”
“All things I’ve ever wanted to say suddenly I’ve been bold enough to say them on Social Media.”
“When reacting with even the most subtle of mannerisms, in a way that does not represent ourselves as the greater intelligence of who we are, we become a slave to our thoughts and succumb to our feelings. In effect, we simply fall unconscious to a pattern of conditioned reflexes. And so, blinded again, we lose sight to the magnificence of what will always lie waiting within us.”
“Twitter is a vessel that we can use to share #positivity to others through our timeline one tweet at a time.”
“Twitter is a vessel that we can use to share #positivity to others through our timeline one tweet at a time.”
“I can't change you and you can't change me but we can work together and change the world.”
“I can't change you and you can't change me but we can work together and change the world.”
“Say something worthwhile and people will listen.”
“Say something worthwhile and people will listen.”
“Pretend to be happy and eventually you will believe that you are.”
“If You Feel Inspired Share it to Inspire Others.”
“Not truly living in the present moment & later regretting is like closing your eyes when a peacock is dancing, only to want to see it dance once it is gone.-RVM”
“Oh mighty man! you are the greatest of all living creatures,unique in looks & thinking, For there is nothing you set your mind to accomplish with the involvement & full support of the will power,that will be too big to be brought into existence.”
“Your Twitter Profile is your business card.”
“happiness dwells within”
“I only lack what I perceive as a necessity”
“If you say you are weak, others will see you as weak. If you say you are strong, they will still see you as weak. Live to see the difference, and you will be invincible.”
“Gloomy ones must learn to light the Fire of Inspiration. – the Spark that will clear the Dark within.-RVM”
“When reacting with even the most subtle of mannerisms, in a way that does not represent ourselves as the greater intelligence of who we are, we become a slave to our thoughts and succumb to our feelings. In effect, we simply fall unconscious to a pattern of conditioned reflexes. And so, blinded again, we lose sight to the magnificence of what will always lie waiting within us.”
“Life wasn't meant to be feared but lived fearlessly.”
“The past no longer exist,for we can never bring it back, & the future is yet to come,so we need to be patient to witness it,but the present that we are witnessing now can only be used to relish the good times of the past,then prepare & hope for a better future that can surpass the good times of the past.”
“Make the world brighter with your kindness.”
“Look at a stonecutter hitting at the rock. Nothing happens at first, but after many strikes, the rock eventually cracks. In Life, don't Doubt. Keep at it and it will happen.-RVM”
“Know and understand what you believe, and believe what you know and understand.”
“see the water in the glass and care not whether it's half empty or half full”
“Better tired than retired.”
“Despite the despair of destruction, thinking of designing and defining your own destiny is a distinguishable desire of your determined soul and it can only be fulfilled by detachment from worldly things and by overcoming dilemmas of your life.”
“life is like cricket when u r out of form continuous ‪#‎bowled‬ #bowled #bowled then there are only two conditions left either u leave cricket or work harder to gain ur form......same is the case of life when everything is going out of form means facing terrible situation there are only two conditions are left either surrender yourself to the situation or work hard to overcome the situation....”
“In noticing your thought, you become free of the mind and make contact with yourself; the one who is aware of thought.”
“The person that desires to do great things in life must be ready to embrace the smaller things first.”
“Embracing the smaller things of life shows you have been given the passport to do great things.”
“Genius does not fear rejection but incomprehension”
“In a society like ours, the intelligent will always be the dumb.”
“Superior intelligence combined with superior appearance will always lead to a superior ego.”
“I don't want to learn history, I want to make it”
“A psychopath without an attachment figure will always evolve into a monster.”
“Nothing's worse than people being blind about someone's genius.”
“Halloween is the only day where people wear a mask. For me it is the only day to take it off.”
“In noticing your thought, you become free of the mind and make contact with yourself; the one who is aware of thought.”
“reputation is our reflected image, perceived through a mirror of reality and portrayed aside an open window”
“imagination is the language of who has the power to make a change”
“love what makes you different”
“Living Life without a Purpose is like having an Ice cream cone in your hand, letting it melt and drip without eating it. It was yours to Enjoy, but you lost it!-RVM”
“Music is the sound image of the soul, Dr.Mohammed A Alrazak”
“Perfection of this human life happens when we take the responsibility to be and act as authentic Leaders in every life situation.”
“The only thing I did right today was have oatmeal for breakfast…”
“When money talks, No body checks the grammar”
“Genius people don't search for a job, Job searches them.”
“Don't wait till it's to late to regret not doing something sooner.”
“If you ever feel like your life is a living hell and you don't feel like waking up and facing it
Just remember...
That you're living someone's everyday and they have to face it cause they can't sleep.”
“Learn from yesterday, live for today, hope for tomorrow.”
“Guns serve one purpose: to kill or protect from being killed.”
“Only one thing has to change for us to know happiness in our lives: where we focus our attention.”
“It’s ok to be who you are without trying to be who you think you should be.”
“It’s ok to be who you are without trying to be who you think you should be.”
“Inspiration is that Power that makes you Seek and reach the Peak.-RVM”
“"Anyone who is Truly Spiritual would have to detach from any religion, while simultaneously embracing them all." - Martin Screeton”
“Do not dream through other people's eyes coz them opening their eyes could be the ending to your dream”
“However great the task may be, the outcome will be greater.”
“Pleasures that we seek are not Happiness at its peak... for it is Contentment that gives True fulfillment.-RVM”
“life is all about patience ,in every aspect of life patience promotes friendship and discourages enemity.”
“Life is Best.
But do not Rest.
If you take Rest.
You will become Dust,..”
“in the midist of trials the best comforter is not all people around you whom you think but it is yourself”
“The process of finding your happiness should not keep you from trying to reach it. Don't ever be afraid of the strongest of challenges, they bring you the most rewards.”
“We all should strive to be one face, regardless of all the other faces that strive to be one with us.”
“When God says no, be grateful, and say thank you.”
“With mindful awareness, negative self judgements make an excellent reference point for who you are not.”
“Most people are losing life making money. Soon they are left with lot of money but no life.-RVM”
“Even the Cosmos' darkest holes have the potential to become light.”
“New year's day, a day which devours your mind with hope”
“Activists are ignitors. They ignite new possibilities, new opportunities and new ways of thinking.”
“The only link between what is and what isn't...is the Bridge of Faith. Believe in yourself.”
“you can't win among hypocrites and in time of corruption, but you should never feel defeated and that is your triumph”
“Among racist and hypocrites you always feel the triumph, because they are always wrong and you are always right”
“Dreams are premonitions of your ability to achieve your goals.”
““The mind isn't contrieved to love but to cherish those who can be loved and listen who those who can't””
“The universe simply means,the university of records,because it is place records are made & broken.”
“Those who Crave are sure to take disappointments to their Grave.-RVM”
“With mindful awareness, negative self judgements make an excellent reference point for who you are not.”
“The disbelief of today can make tomorrow believable.”
“Being a simple thinking person and living a simplistic life is simply not a simple task.”
“Had life been predictable, we would have just closed our eyes and had a theoretical experience of our upcoming life. It's better that it is unpredictable, we can enjoy the practical one!!”
“Love dies only when growth stops.”
“Positive Thinking = Positive Doing”
“Successful people aren't born that way. They become successful by establishing the habit of doing things unsuccessful people don't like to do. The successful people don't always like these things themselves; they just get on and do them.”
“If we approach our dreams with confidence & faith,we will soon discover that every obstacles on our way becomes stepping stones.”
“Blessed are those who are not ashamed to declare their dreams,for their dreams will also never be ashamed to manifest itself in the public.”
“Those who grow Tall by giving it their All, without the worry of Fall, are powered by a Passion,that is born from Inspiration.-RVM”
“In the darkness of loneliness, one can only feel with the heart!”
“If we desire to conquer this world,then the process must first begin in our minds.”
“Never be cowed into thinking small,because your subconscious being is ever happy & ever ready to bring your giant dreams to pass.”
“Any direction you take in life & encounter stiff opposition,know for sure that you are in the right direction.”
“You could do anything you want you don't need talent just effort and a strong mindset that believes you are capable of achieve anything”
“It may be a Mountain or a Tree, a River or a Bee . . . learn to enjoy the little things in Life.-RVM”
“If you're not making money while you're sleeping,then I suggest you don't sleep in.”
“We mess up our lives by not being what God originally intended us to be.”
“You choose how far you want to go, most settle for a few billions most settle for a few thousands. Your financial success is a choice”
“I don't desire to fit in. As long as my fingerprints are different from yours, i'll continue to stand out.”
“Self-awareness is an act of self-kindness.”
“It doesn't matter what people believe about you, it's what you believe about yourself that matters”
“We produce what we continually think about.”
“Sometimes you limit yourself by the type of vision you have.”
“People have become less than what they were originally intended to be. That why their lives are a mess.”
“I refuse to be anything less than what I was created to be.”
“As I grow deeper in knowing God I begin to sound stupid to dumb people.”
“If people become what they were originally created to be by God, this world would be a better place.”
“My needs are not just bread and shelter, but everything God said I can have.”
“People fail not because they are not talented, but because they lack character.”
“Wealth allows me to have a choice and bless other people.”
“Unlearn what keeps you in mediocre and learn what will make you extraordinary.”
“We are conscious, we can see ourselves separate from the universe.”
“Failure is nothing but a concept in our minds we creat”
“Failure is nothing but a concept in our minds we creat”
“Failure is nothing but a concept in our minds we creat”
“Self-awareness is an act of self-kindness.”
“You become what you constantly think about. Your thoughts influence your reality.”
“You choose how far you'd like to go in life. How far have you chosen to go?”
“Is it not strange that while we have an opportunity to choose Positive over Negative, Joy over Sorrow, we often choose the latter? -RVM”
“The opinion of man will keep you poor.”
“If you stumble and still you did not reach your dreams, don't quit rather diversify your route.”
“You have only one life, don't live with your past, rather live today.”
“Conform to Love - The Supreme Law.”
“Don't let life defeat you.”
“Never use your low moments to mourn & groan,but rather use it as a preparation ground for your forth coming high moments.”
“Energy runs through through us all.”
“Make your Life Exciting. Find out what gives you Joy and makes your heart Dance, and Do it.-RVM”
“buy cheap or....be rich”
“Selfish people make the world go around. The more they take, the more we go around.”
“A person who goes along so they can get along, is the person you should most hurry along.”
“The only way to counteract this very short life is by Learning to dream big.”
“Whether it's religion, sex, or race; we all stem from the same seed.”
“Never worry about the Past, it brings Tears. Don’t think too much about the Future, it brings Fears. Live in the Present Moment with a Smile, it brings Cheers!-RVM”
“True success is reaching the capacity that God had originally intended for you to reach.”
“Don't allow your life to be driven by other people's expectation.”
“Way u see people Dont see them as what they showing you. See in a that way what they are hiding from you.
- by Anukul chauhan.”
“Those who make a future for themselves, do not need predictions.”
“Our compassion superior is that which cares for nature's innocence.”
“A mind that doubts is halfway to wisdom”
“Continuing to be domainated by resistance to the expression of who you really are means that you perpetually live life in a subtle state of fear.”
“Each one of us is born for a purpose, just a need is that we serve it”
“Without mindful awareness, the shadows of your past may haunt your present.”
“Everyone has a destiny which is actually your admission.”
“Women will get themselves hurt if they are with a man who lacks character.”
“A great Mentor holds your hand as you ease towards your goal, ensuring that the confidence you share is real and obtainable; then straps on your wings as you gaze towards the challenge ahead, securing your success and locking in the path to get there; finally, your Mentor is the one that pushes you over the edge at that moment they know you can spread those wings and fly alone”
“It is often those that Push us the Hardest, that Love us the Most.”
“Most people's legacy begins once they pass on. Not me! I'm creating my multi-media Legacy when I'm still alive.”
“Most people's legacy begins once they pass on. Not me! I'm creating my multi-media Legacy when I'm still alive.”
“Those who reach their Destination use Determination that’s born from Inspiration.”
“The meaning of life is to find a purpose to live for.”
“Stop feeling sorry for yourself, get out and be what you wish to be.”
“It takes a failure to see failure, successful people always see opportunity regardless of the circumstances!”
“If you continue to stay in the lifestyle you have come to live, then you cannot expect to reap what is outside that lifestyle's range of expectations.”
“To be set to die yet remain is only an answer of time.”
“View one as a brother as in time all others will be the hunted.”
“If happiness always depended on what we had, then the richest would always be Glad, not Sad.-RVM”
“You are what you think, think great!”
“If we try and fail,it doesn't mean we have failed,but it simply means we have succeeded in knowing what will never work at all or what will never work within a certain time frame.”
“I am determined to win in this game called life,hence I will keep trying until I finally weary failure & winning becomes my second nature.”
“The longer your dreams reside in your mind,the more it becomes potent on manifestation day.”
“Many have reinvented the wheel only to find it no rounder than the original...learn to learn from others”
“I was born on a sad day, I have lived a sad life, and I will die in a sad way. But don't feel bad, because everything about you made me happy.”
“No one writes a good book in a day”
“I have outgrown many things. I have outgrown relatives who gladly offer criticism but not support. I have outgrown my need to meet my family's unrealistic expectations of me. I have outgrown girls who wear masks and secretly rejoice at my misfortunes. I have outgrown shrinking myself for boys who are intimidated by my intelligence and outspoken nature. I have outgrown friends who cannot celebrate my accomplishments.”
“Problems are everywhere, so are Solutions. Unfortunately, we see more of the Problems than the Solutions.-RVM”
“The key to experiencing perfect joy every second of your life is being what God originally intended you to be.”
“Retirement restricts one from reaching God's best.”
“Three are the Peaks that everyone must Seek: Achievement, Fulfillment and Enlightenment.-RVM”
“Evil is only the lack of only Love.”
“Evil is merely the lack of purely Love.”
““View ONE as a brother. In time, all others will be the hunted.””
“The people that are wise today, were fools yesterday...”
“Admit it Now™”
“Admit to Life™”
“ABCD.... Genesis of The Genius”
“When I think of giving up I get sick. The reason for my existence drives me to keep on pushing everyday until I succeed.”
“In my eyes, there's only two types of love. Either you can love someone unconditionally or not at all because what's love without the formula? We're too revolutionized to expect. Don't hurt her because loves not a game; but a commitment.”
“Smile all the while because life is just a mile; enjoy the journey before it’s over.-RVM”
“We might look at them and say they are a disgrace, up until we realize that a disgrace is the way we look at them.”
“Without mindful awareness, the shadows of your past may haunt your present.”
“Influence is inspiring someone without any manipulation.”
“Find a sanctuary with fireflies, trust me there is no life on stars.”
“If a person tells you a thing is undoable,tell the person that you can do it as long as you are able to convince your mind that,that thing is doable.”
“Delay may temporarily hijacke your dreams,but never allow excuse to accompany it.”
“Never disparage the indigent.”
“Never disparage the indigent.... TIME may not be so kind.”
“I am not finding myself, more introducing my many selves to one another in hope they may find an alliance. And that may sound slightly mad, but we are all mad and anyone who disagrees is probably in denial. Either that, or they are simply the sort I should avoid spending time with, for fear they may imprison me in their one dimensional delusional definitions of normality. How frightening.”
“God's got your back because you gave Him your heart”
“People are like pistachios. Some of them open up easily, but there are others who need to be really broken to get into.-RVM”
“Poverty is a great inspiration to success... Quote me!”
“Life itself is an inspiration. The more you live, the more you are entitled to be inspired.”
“Some people regard private enterprise as a predatory tiger to be shot. Others look on it as a cow they can milk. Not enough people see it as a healthy horse, pulling a sturdy wagon.”
“Love is Supreme: 13©.”
“To become a millionaire you must first become a Lion, you can't even spell millionaire without the word Lion”
“I declare your future if you don't like it change it.”
“Simple kindness to one's self and all that lives is the most powerful
transformational force of all.”
“Until the final bell it won't end.”
“Through the rain is the only way to smile.”
“You spend your TIME to make a DIME. You lose your HEALTH to make your WEALTH, but at the end it is FUNNY because you leave back all your MONEY.-RVM”
“In life we take chances to prove to ourselves that we are strong enough to be here.”
“Don't negate, uplift and inspire at every chance you get.”
“Patience, plus determination, equals Opportunity!”
“Slavery could never destroy me. I destroy slavery the moment I live as I lived in Eden.”
“You can only enjoy your whole success
when you take credit for all your failures”
“Whenever negativity makes us drip, Inspiration creates a flip from Negative to Positive.-RVM”
“Man is the arbiter of hope,the energizer of life & the designer of his destiny.”
“Your goal must always be ahead of your vision for you to make lasting impact in life.”
“Our thinking has ignorantly & illegally confined us into living a life of mediocrity.”
“Life's irony;Dreaming is free,yet most humans still economise in their dream world.”
“May the Winds of Life always blow the seeds of Health, Wealth and Happiness your way.”
“Always focus to never become out of focus”
“I'm not actually a fan of thoughts; the irony being that i act like i am.”
“Days are like trains, they will just zoom by. You can be zapped seeing them pass or you can jump on to one of them and enjoy the Journey.-RVM”
“Life is a but a series of memories as we move through the passage of time, chapter by chapter; So pen your own destiny.”
“the biggest adventures of life are often unexpected ones”
“Take pictures not of places, but take pictures of moments. Capture it not with your camera, but capture it with your heart.”
“the higher you grow, the noisier it gets”
“We spend most of our time thinking about the past without realizing it's gone for good.
Start thinking about the future”
“Running from your problem is the biggest mistake.
Stand and Face them.”
“Never look down upon yourself till God says so.”
“Never be shy in discussing your dreams,for in so doing,you are giving it more potency to quickly manifest.”
“Rather than opt for an ant feed dreams,why not opt for the more beneficial lion feed dreams.”
“Our thinking has ignorantly & illegally confined us into the wheelchair called mediocrity.”
“Thinking can make the uncommon,common,just because you have commonized the thought in your mind.”
“Search for knowledge and you will find it, ask for wisdom and it will be given, patiently strive for the life of your dreams and you will have it. In life, you simply get out what you put in. We must never limit ourselves In any aspect and live life to the fullest.”
“"It is true, success is not a destination but rather a journey. What you strive for and the obstacles you overcome; what you learn and become ultimately determines your future and lifestyle you choose to live. Therefore leave no stone unturned; limit yourself in no way and commit yourself entirely in each decision to get the most out of each experience along the way.”
“We are not truly defined by what we do or what we have but rather who we are.”
“I'm not actually a fan of thoughts; the irony being that i act like i am.”
“If there would have been subjective meaning of LIFE, it would be Happiness..”
“Life is slow enough for you to create moments and enjoy them, but fast enough for you to miss it altogether if you're unaware.”
“~ The path that is behind you is the one you created, but now keep going and make new paths to which you are heading”
“Do not force me to trust you when I can not even trust myself”
“According to me, Argument is a primary weapons of man..”
“Don't wait for the correct moment,otherwise it would be too late,time will also take that moment with it...”
“Don't see the downfall of your enemy,see your rising..”
“To have a great man for an intimate friend seems pleasant to those who have never tried it; those who have, fear it.”
“Try to see the world from your heart because mind is busy with his ego.”
“Power your dreams with passion & beliefs.”
“All things are possible,if we put our belief's on the line.”
“Let's get real! If you want things to change, you must change things. Otherwise, the same thoughts, feelings, and actions will bring the same result. Makes sense? Yes?”
“How do you write the wrongs of your life? By simply renewing your mind,& How do you renew your mind? By simply changing your thinking pattern.”
“2.	“All my life I have been learning how to talk it is the time to start learning how to listen””
“In the struggle of resistance we react. In the power of non-resistance we respond.”
“In the struggle of resistance we react. In the power of non-resistance we respond.”
“If you prepare your mind for a thousand things,it will do a thousand things for you,but if you prepare your mind for only one thing,it will do just that for you.”
“Be with life to be alive.”
“When I am alone... I walk!
When I am together... I sit. That's SHIT!”
“If only people preferred to spend more on Science than Religion, the world would have been a better place for sure.”
“Never give up in life,for as hopeless as your case may look,you still have the potentials to become the next billionaire in life.”
“Far greater than all the material possessions that I possess, is my Freedom to Choose, my Freedom to Live, and my Freedom to be Happy.-RVM”
“If you don't live to change the wrong notion people have about you,your country,your continent , your race,nor your world,then you have not lived life.”
“Take away love and our earth is a tomb.”
“In a world filled with poets, it was always you. You are my pen, my paper, my written word.”
“Introspect! Is your life moving forward or just moving like a pendulum?-RVM”
“sometimes we have to keep our dream alive by just imagining how great it feels to achive because what we feel is what we want and what we want is what we love to have”
“What if the universe was just an atom ?”
“It is neither your Family background, nor your Educational background that determines your success in life, but your level of reasoning and determination...”
“Never forget to show appreciation when God opens a new chapter in your life”
“Sometimes its essential to act silly because even the wisest man has a small child sleeping within.”
“It is largely because civilization enables us constantly to profit from knowledge
which we individually do not possess and because each individual's use of his
particular knowledge may serve to assist others unknown to him in achieving their
ends that men as members of civilized society can pursue their individual ends so
much more successfully than they could alone.”
“Create an inspirational environment for yourself filled with uplifting by books, movies, quotes, and music.”
“What you missed in school, you can always learn it here...”
“Only if you search yourself you will find.”
“There are my thoughts, feelings, and sensations... and here I am.”
“There is no such thing as “Good and Evil".There is only the Perception of Life's Strengths and Weaknesses.”
“Live! Don't just Exist ! ! ! Don't drag through life . . . Live each day as a Celebration!-RVM”
“You do not give a starving man a fish, you teach the man how to catch the fish and make him independent.”
“There are my thoughts, feelings, and sensations... and here I am.”
“If evil dominates it is because it has centuries of practice”
“Time does not fly, we fly through it.”
“Being torn between to decisions will only make you look to your heart rather than you head.”
“If you are the same place this year as you were last year,
You have lived a year in vain.”
“Go play the game because you love it, not because you want to be great at it.”
“The memories that you made today, you get to keep forever.”
“The memories that you make today, you get to keep forever.”
“When you look from a thought, you disconnect from the abundance of life unfolding with you, and for you.”
“I like quotes because if a picture’s worth 1,000 words, a good quote’s not far behind.”
“The truth is that we are all born to do great things, but only some believe it.”
“We are all on a boat in the river of life, some relax and see where it takes them and others row hard to get there.”
“Nothing takes you on top but positive attitude and hard work.”
“The time you invest into something and make it happen then is it only called Something.”
“Inspiration creates a never-ending Power that makes you go on and on and on and on!-RVM #Inspiration #Motivation #power #stayinspired”
“Tomorrow is our collective destiny & if tomorrow cannot be held by any force from manifesting,so also is the destiny of a determined soul.”
“When you look from a thought, you disconnect from the abundance of life unfolding with you, and for you.”
“Means we use must be as pure as the ends we seek.”
“If something happens that causes you Pain, remind yourself that you can’t get the Rainbow without a little Rain.-RVM”
“We have not conquered an idea in our minds,how then do we conquer it in our world? How do we conquer an idea in our minds? By becoming friends with the idea i.e by entertaining the idea regularly in our minds.”
“The only tool we can use to impact the universe are our beliefs.”
“Poverty will reign supreme in the life of the one whose life is devoid of rich thoughts.”
“Even if you detest poverty like a plague,sometimes your destiny may compulsorily assign you to pass through the poverty littered road to the expressway called riches.”
“Lazy hands offer no compromise.”
“Live your beliefs and you can turn the world around.”
“We cannot gain strength without working through the pain.”
“We are FREE, not bound like a Tree. We can Move, we can Dance ...we can take a Chance! -RVM”
“We can do great things in this universe,if only we believe not in the Infinite,but in greatness.”
“Just as some bacterias are immuned to some drugs,so also in life,the manifestation of some dreams may be immuned to some environments,unless there is a breath of fresh environment.”
“In our day to day power struggles it’s often un-necessary to play one’s cards… just showing them can achieve lifelong 'results'”
“This is the day that God has made so you can share your gifts and abilities (that was given just to you) with others. Would you fulfill that today? Have a blessed one!”
“When people gave up on him I prayed for him. Change has always been needed, but what sin can God not change around! With faith all things are possible.”
“Pain is to life as water is to a garden.”
“Play but never be serious with the game you play.”
“Maybe what Pilate said should be re-examined and he shouldn’t be taking it on the chin for stating the 'obvious'”
“The #Achiever says his #Thoughts led him to #Success and the Criminal says his Thoughts led him to #Crime. Everybody thinks, but what we Think determines our #Destiny.-RVM #Inspiration #getinspired”
“It is never too late to be what you might have been.”
“Always be thankful to your shadow, it keeps your darker part out.”
“Sometimes, all you need to achieve your dreams might just be a GOOD ADVISER with great words of advice...”
“Always identify clearly, where you belong. So, when the victory comes, you won't be counted out.”
“Small but consistent equals big.”
“All the colors are purity…. lack of color is evil.”
“A man’s wealth is the quantity of his assets; his worth is the quality of his character.”
“In life don't run for success run for satisfaction, If you are satisfied you are succeeded”
“Lazy hands offer no promise.”
“For even the Atheist will testify.”
“For even the Atheist will testify.... ABCD.”
“I want to live in a world where women feel comfortable wearing less clothes.”
“We limit our reality by boundaries of our imagination”
“Some people are meant to heal, move on, and forget. Others are meant to heal by burning that candle of awareness forever so others can find their way out of the darkness.”
“You will not know the great possibilities in the end if you never try from the start.”
“I have no time to Cry because my Focus is to Fly in the Sky !- RVM”
“There are both males and females struggling throughout the world to become successful. Whether the oppression is race, religion, tribe, caste or even gender related, if you keep moving to the past and to negativity, you will never rise. You have to look further to the horizon and cross that barrier; only then shall you achieve what's beyond.”
“No matter how little, your effort will make a difference if that difference matters to you”
“Few will ever grasp the reality least cope with the pain.”
“Jesus Christ is more than just your Lord and Savior, He is your Best Friend, Confidant and Anchor of Light.”
“Letting go of any judgements you have of others liberates you from your own prison.”
“Always stay positive, strong and bold. Before you know it, you will discover that your life is truly amazing.”
“Prepare to live the triumphant life. Why, because abundant success lies within your reach.”
“Life will give you mountains to climb; but always remember, those mountains are your stepping stones towards success.”
“Transform your current self, in order to better your future self.”
“You cant spill a drip, just like you cant drop drops, you can only drop drips and spill drops.”
“Greatness is when your passion turns into your purpose and your purpose creates abundant success which leads to a great significance.”
“The opportunity to truly Live doesn't wait. Either you USE it or you LOSE it.-RVM”
“For it's what you do daily that defines who you are, not a sporadic moment of opportunity in which you feel obliged to act out in kindness.”
“I keep the dead ,for the dead watch over me.”
“Have you ever paused to be Grateful? For eyes to see, nose to smell, ears to hear, tongue to taste, hands to feel, head to think and heart to love?-RVM”
“To live with Faith, eliminate Fear. Only one can exist in our Life at any point of time.-RVM”
“Let us not become so busy making a living that we forget to enjoy our Life. Every day of Life is meant to be Lived and Enjoyed.-RVM”
“Our future is embedded inside our beliefs & the words we speak.”
“You can't change people but you can make people do a change.”
“Dreams that we want to achieve certainly have thousands of obstacles, do not think the solution to achieve it but think of ways to go through the obstacle because a success will not come without effort.”
“Once failure is not a disaster. The disaster is when you forgot your failure after you succeed.”
“Don't seek for a solution that has nothing to be learn from but seek for a solution that you'll get something to learn.
Because life is about learning.”
“Life is short but it need us through a long way.”
“It's a pleasure to create a smile on people's face, and a gratification to see it on the people you love.”
“Be with people who know your VALUE not your PRICE”
“You have to be courageous enough to take one step back in order to move ten steps forward.”
“it's always good to study inside your brain
Make sure you put "do not disturb " sign”
“The tallest mountain must weather storms on all of its faces.”
“Letting go of any judgements you have of others liberates you from your own prison.”
“Democrats and Republicans are like your Weapons and Tools. You can not win battles if you only have a shield and no sword, and you can't build if you have screws and no hammer. And more importantly, you can't bring the Nation together using neither of them.”
“What's right about America is that although we have a mess of problems, we have great capacity - intellect and resources - to do some thing about them”
“If you don't risk anything it doesn't mean you won't lose, it just means you'll never win.”
“In the space between your thoughts there is your truth.”
“Every unknown being in life has the potentials to become known.”
“Don’t just be who you are and what you are. Move, evolve, change, grow and become better each day.-RVM”
“Christmas does not remind us that God was born over 2000 years ago. It is a time to remember that God was born in our Heart and Lives in our Heart, everyday!-RVM”
“In the space between your thoughts there is your truth.”
“The thing about saying smart things is that hardly anyone catches them and the problem with saying stupid things is that no one misses them… they're like fielding slow grounders.”
“People are a lot like windows. Some are clear and transparent, others are fogged up. Yet most are just broken and in need of repair.”
“Live your life like today is yesterday only you can still change it!”
“If mistakes can never be forgiven how can erasers exist?”
“If you are convinced that you have a destiny in something,stand by it no matter the temporal setbacks & difficulties,for they will soon fizzle out.”
“Abnormally pursue your dreams,for in due season,today's abnormality shall become tomorrow's normalty.”
“The moment you can see possibilities,then it shows you are ready to grab your own share of life's limitless wealth.”
“Starting small simply means,"look I am trying to master this thing,the moment I can succeed in mastering it,it then shows I can also master the big one.”
“When you quote a hundred writers all at once, you become one of them. You can't write without first reading”
“Wealth does not define a man's stature, a man's stature defines his wealth.”
“He said I'm only human, but human is a hell of a thing to be.”
“It was like hearing Sinner Man for the first time. You stole all my fate and good fortune for a few moments just like Nina Simone. It could have changed me forever. You know how I dance to that song.”
“I realized my dreams would be more likely if I stopped calling them dreams.”
“So often, we have moving experiences that we have never experienced before, and we think that this epiphany has somehow changed our destiny or fate. But in reality we eventually find that the only thing we have actually changed is our awareness of our own imaginations.”
“Don't shy from a path just because you encounter a thorn bush. What's beyond the thorn bush might be your paradise.”
“LIFE, LIFE IS VERY HARD BELIEVE ME WHEN I TELL YOU THIS, LIFE IS HARD. IT'S WHEN YOU THINK LIFE IS EASY THAT MAKES YOU FAIL THROUGH LIFE.”
“The person with mental resources is greater than the
One with all the physical resources.”
“Giants want to be shorter to erase the fear in the heart of people and Dwarfs want to be taller to escape bullying. People are envious of what they don't understand, be cool, everybody has got a problem. At every point of your life, remember you are just perfect for your situations.”
“Whenever sleep wants to hinder your waking up,say this, "sleep is good,but to wake up & do something better
is the best.”
“Place this notice on the door of your of your life,"small dreams are not welcome here,please come back in another life.”
“Congratulations!you are residing in a very good place,worry no more,for this life is the best place you can ever be.”
“For your circumstances to change in life, you must sow need seeds. Before sowing new seeds, you must first uproot the weeds...”
“If our belief system is positively activated,it can help us to invent & create diverse things in this life.”
“It's a universe of possibilities,think & become.”
“Change is inevitable, relish or perish”
“Innovation is the solution when no solution is in sight”
“Each and every day we are given the chance to set a course yet uncharted and to live life like never before.
Choose wisely and make your path a trail for others to follow.”
“The wise respond. The foolish react. The wise think & then act. The foolish act and then regret.-RVM”
“If you choose to cherish life... you need to procrastinate... it's the way smart people work hard, play hard.”
“Know your limitations on right and wrong decisions, but don't have a limit on how far you can go in life, because you can go forever”
“To be united with the universe,you need to think big.”
“Never Love that whit doesn't reply.”
“Time is All.”
“To own fault is to own resolve.”
“Sometimes the music you listen to isn't the beat of the drums, it's the rhythm of the heart you dance to in life.”
“No one's faith can turn the truth.”
“View one's Portrait of Love before showing yours.”
“Four all will testify.... ABCD.”
“Since inner beauty cannot be measured, you are beyond any competition.”
“Warm weather fosters growth: cold weather destroys it. Thus a man with an unsympathetic temperament has a scant joy: but a man with a warm and friendly heart overflowing blessings, and his beneficence will extend to posterity.”
“Blessed is he who neglects the wide path & ply the narrow & difficult path,for the path is narrow because it is the thinking path & it leads to great riches.”
“Life's manifestations are adequately expressed to him that is in charge of his mind.”
“Solutions cometh to problems that have dwelled extensively inside a controled mind.”
“control your mind & then situations will be under your control.”
“The mind is the principal thing,use it but under control.”
“Everything is under control to him that has gotten his mind under control.”
“Until your mind rehearses & reads the testament of your life,your flesh can never accomplish it.”
“Until we understand the limitations or lack of it,of our minds,we shall continue to limit the mind in our daily living.”
“All things are possible if belief is the undisputed king in your kingdom.”
“O universo são leis e energias, consegues controlar as energias mas não as leis. [The universe are laws and energies, you can control the energy but not the laws.]”
“True pride stems from failure.”
“We first learn love from our mothers, to live with no regrets and to inspire our greatest potential.”
“No matter where the road may take me, I know for sure that music is always there for me. And even if I might get lost somewhere, somehow, I'll always find my way back, because music always leads me home.”
“For me, music is the most honest way to express every kind of emotion and I am very thankful for having the chance to share love with the world.”
“Open your heart today,open your mind today & dine with the Infinite,let wisdom flow,then share your wisdom with the universe & the universe will be a better place for you & for me.”
“Those who Cry that they can't Fly in the Sky, must just Try to Be what they want to Be! -RVM”
“God can bring greatness out of your mess. He can take that thing that seemed impossible to you and form it into something great. Keep your focus on Him”
“If you want to find greatness and excellence in you, develop an intimate relationship with the Creator not the creation”
“Potential is always present,waiting to be exposed.God is always looking for what is not yet visible.He looks deep within you & sees greatness””
“Change is painful, but patience and peace are God's gifts and our companions for the process!”
“This universe is full of surprises & I may be the next being destined to surprise the universe with my dreams.”
“Seek not who you are, release who you think you are and you will
be revealed...”
“We ain't going to add value to tomorrows world,if we refuse to dream today.”
“The soup can see the eye, but the eye can not see the soup!”
“Solid Pride is set in Failure.”
“Average minds always talk about the fanciful things money can buy,but great minds talk about the great industries money can create.”
“Tomorrow shall be filled with despair & hopelessness,if we humans conspire never to dream today.”
“" We are all bearers of the trancedental spark of creation the difference being union with our twin flame intensifies and uplifts our spark beyond the comprehension of the human mind hence the bond of twin flame frequently does not stand the test of time , it fades but never extinguishes for the soul is eternal everlasting "
Z.Alibhai.”
“A smart man solves but a wise man evolves.”
“True wisdom lies within those who have passed their knowledge upon generations.”
“The love of thy father stretches beyond the eye can see, but the love of thy mother stretches beyond the waves of the sea.”
“When you have worked hard and done well, and walk through that doorway of opportunity, you do not slam it shut behind you. No, you reach back and you give other folks the same chances that help[ed] you succeed”
“Dharma is a action to perform not a performance to see.”
“Blessed is he who's dream causes his soul to leap for joy.”
“All one needs is someone to take care of and someone who takes care of us.”
“Brew your LIFE as you would want your coffee.”
“life is an open book test”
“I'm not giving up, I'm growing up...”
“I think about the love that was taken away from us. I hoped we could spend a thousand years to make up for the loss. But a thousand years would not justify our love. So, now I pray to spend eternity with you and the God that brought us together.”
“Whatsoever man desires to become in life rest within man,but it disguises itself in the form of a seed.”
“Dreams are the raw materials needed to manufacture the product called success.”
“Guide your life with all dexterity & diligence,for without it you are finished.”
“The Quality? It's in our blood. And that's what we give best, to our customers.”
“GET ON YOUR HUSTLE AND GRIND LIKE NO OTHER....BELIEVE ME AT THE END OF THE DAY EVERYTHING MAKE'S CENT'S.”
“I've torn down a lot of false alters in my life, only to find out there was one I never even considered, which was the one inside myself.”
“Life is like a river—it keeps flowing, flowing, and flowing till it merges into the sea. Nothing can stop the flow of Life, but you can enjoy the Journey-RVM”
“Simplify, eliminate, delete and you will find peace.”
“A line runs from the meditations of the heart to the words of the mouth. The
meditations are not clear to us until the mouth utters its words. If what the mouth
utters is unclear or foolish or mendacious, it must be that the meditations are the
same. But the line runs both ways. The words of the mouth will become the
meditations of the heart, and the habit of loose talk loosens the fastenings of our
understanding.”
“The Wind that Blows, the Water that Flows, the Sun that Glows, are all proof that a Power exists. Believe and Experience the Universal Power-RVM”
“In the period of doubt,the great still confidently dream,but mediocre folks fear to dream,even when hope abound.”
“When will man's unbelief sojourn end,because everyday we keep trudging with our unbeliefs,believing that our unbeliefs will soon become the acceptable beliefs.”
“Knowledge is power. The more knowledge, expertise, and connections you have,
the easier it is for you to make a profit at the game of your choice.”
“Whatever topic you consciously & constantly feed your mind on,the mind then further researches it on your behalf using the subconscious.”
“No Faith will turn the Truth.”
“It is not always the end result that matter most. As long there is effort, consistency, and determination in the end will results to what matter most.”
“My inspiration for putting this initiative together came while looking at a postcard picturing a California vintner in a bubble bath enjoying a glass of wine. As I have had dear friends and patients who suffered with this disease, it struck me that a calendar of this kind, including a woman in a bathtub enjoying a glass of champagne, could be a wonderful way to raise money for breast cancer awareness.”
“Each morning is a new beginning,but what we do at the moment matters most.Know the true value of time,snatch the moment & make use of every opportunity.Never put off till tomorrow,what you can do today.”
“Your perspective towards your endeavour matters most. Energy flows when you focus your attention.When you focus to choose on positive thoughts, you will be able to create positive outcome.Make strive to change your perspective from negative thought to positive thought.”
“You can't cross the sea merely by standing and staring at the water.”
“If my mind can conceive it, and my heart can believe it, I know I can achieve it.”
“Life is too short to spend even one day in misery-RVM”
“No man but yourself can stop you from accomplishing your dreams,so pursue it with every dexterity.”
“Thanks for not believing in my dreams,because your unbelief has further emboldened my beliefs.”
“Never bother to believe in my dreams,for I already have enough beliefs.”
“Everyday in someway we believe we will fail, but for today in everyway we will succeed.”
“It's not what we have been through that matters,
it is what we overcome that will.”
“When life gives you lemons you're not always going to have sugar and water at hand.”
“challenges is a helpful attitude which gives life the mental effort
to achieve what requires to acquire”
“In life as in driving the other guy can be wrong as hell but that won't bring you back to life, so look both ways... and behind you.”
“Create your way yourself otherwise it will not create.”
“To tempt someone is not a good thing but to encourage someone is really a good thing.”
“Though I may deny poets their monopoly on inspiration, I still place them in a select group of Fortune's darlings.”
“"Think, Believe, Dream, and Dare."
— Walt Disney”
“If you find it quite a job to keep your mouth shut, close your eyes.”
“the world ows you nothing, you deserve nothing, your intitled to nothing, if you want something get of your arse and go get it yourself.”
“dont use your problems as an excuse for failure, use them as a reason to succeed.”
“If you dont take care of things in life people will take care of things for you. But probably not in the way that you wanted. The young will be taken care of by the old the best way they see fit. later in life the old will be taken care of by young the best way they see fit. Bottom line, if you can't wipe your own ass somebody will do it for you. just don't complain about the way they do it.”
“People don’t have Guts to leave their Ruts because of their ''Buts''-RVM”
“We should endeavour to try, but most of us endeavour to try.”
“procrastination is the way of life”
“Luck is for those who think they will fail”
“Blessed is he who uses both his conscious & subconscious resources to solve life's problems,for solutions shall become his companion.”
“Seeth though a man with formidable beliefs,for kings shall bow before him & be among his entourage.”
“Show me your beliefs &i will tell you what your future may become.”
“The great see only the positive side of belief,but the mediocre are contented with the negative side.”
“It begins with the Impossible & turns into the Unforgettable.”
“Even when Darkness Falls, Your Heart will Always Have My Light.”
“If the keys to a successful life in Jesus is discipline and prayer, when was the last time you held the key of Disciplined Prayer?”
“Blessed is he who sees with his mental eyes,for inside it are mysteries.”
“Living life without a GOAL is like playing football without a Goal post. There is no Purpose. Then why play the game of Life?-RVM”
“As the wind blows, One of us has to go, but i promise to meet you there, where the love once took the air, where we laughed and saw our first show, untill then just dont forget to go”
“As he touched her skin he felt the wind, as he kissed her mouth mountains broke down, he looked into her eyes he saw hope, in a world that once was colliding around them in a shape of a heart, by then they were proven that their love could go any more far”
“He was popular she was smart, she wore glasses he wore dark shades and played the guitar, she was lovely he was hard, he took her into his arms where she made of it a better place, now both play the guitar with a song that came from their heart.”
““Accurate and proper execution is the only way to move closer to perfection”.”
“Most diseases are caused not so much by what we eat, but more by what is eating us-RVM”
“Idealizing life is surely quite unrealistic, however, it is much better than living in constant despair.”
“The easiest way to move the universe is via the word & also via our beliefs.”
“Those who danced were thought to be quite insane by those who could not hear the music.”
“Until when the secret key is discovered,the door to your problems will continue to remain locked.”
“Open your mind & life will open up.”
“Open your mind & life's challenges will become history.”
“They both had a broken heart, but she turned out to be cold hearted, he didn't lose hope because that cold heart once was his warmest place, until today he fights for her, loves her more then he ever did and as much as she deserved it, true love never dies he kept that in mind.”
“It is simpler to learn a dozen languages than to know what to say at the right time.”
“As much as we are to walk in Love, God also requires faithfulness, obedience, honesty, integrity, and humility. All of these are nothing with out love, but having love alone falls short of God's purpose and plans for our lives. We must arrive at the point of love, but then move forward with this love into Faithfulness, Obedience, Honesty, Integrity, and Humility... A failure to do so will leave a person mired in Love without a right way to properly and effectively communicate it!”
“When you put your mind to it, beautiful things can happen”
“If Success is ever to be captivated by you, others must acquiesce to your failure.”
“I Believe Therefore I Shall Become”
“You Must Experience Failure To Appreciate Success”
“When the gods decides to liberate humanity,they first liberate their minds.”
“Until you are ready to be a servant of small things,you can never master big things.”
“What is the Power that transcends one from Achievement to Fulfillment? The Power of Inspiration!-RVM”
“Be brave, believe you can and then do it.”
“Believe in yourself and I promise you it'll be the greatest investment of your life.”
“Whenever a problem arrives, do three things—Face it, Fight it, and Finish it.-RVM”
“Guide your mind with every dexterity,because inside it a thousand good or bad ideas can spring forth.”
“Dream on,for your dreams shall make you known.”
“Always shoot for the stars. Even if you come up short, the results will be out of this world.”
“You must not be me to accomplish what i have accomplished but you must be youself to make that your own dream come true”
“Be yourself, believe me it’s worth it.”
“I was not born a christian, neither was I raised in a christian home, nor sent to a christian school,or worked in a christian organisation nor had friends who were pastors'children but I know somebody who gave it all for me ,thats Jesus Christ the son of God.”
“God made us who we are for a reason. We all have a purpose. You might not know what that purpose is but you will find out. In the meantime be who you are because god made you that way for a reason.”
“Life is not a Race to Chase, but we realize it only when Death comes face-to-face.-RVM”
“I dont need a luxury life, I wanna happy and healthy life”
“If faith cannot rescue you today,then tomorrow hope shall.”
“Solutions cometh when our problems are included in our thinking agnda.”
“Dream is the oxygen that sustains life,just as air sustains man.”
“Dream on,for life has got enough space to accommodate your dreams.”
“Before I pass on, I want to leave my personal multi-media legacy organized and accessible. The last thing that I want my loved ones to do is waste time looking for photos of my life and experience at that time when they need it the most.”
“One of the things we hate most of all is being told, “I told you so” and one of the things we carelessly say the most is “I told you so.””
“Life is unjust, Yet you have a choice whether to sink, or swim. We can either, focus on the good, or we can center the bad. Choose wisely.”
“Life is unjust, Yet you have a choice whether to sink, or swim. We can either, focus on the good, or we can center the bad. Choose wisely.”
“Life is unjust, Yet you have a choice whether to sink, or swim. We can either, focus on the good, or we can center the bad. Choose wisely.”
“Life is unjust, Yet you have a choice whether to sink, or swim. We can either, focus on the good, or we can center the bad. Choose wisely.”
“Some people just talk through Life. They talk, talk, talk and Life is over. Some people walk through Life. They walk, walk, walk and arrive at their Destination.-RVM”
“Your time spend is not your time wasted, it is the time invested.”
“It is easier to move or change directions of something already in motion. Make a decision and get moving!”
“Beware: Religion does not have to give an answer to who Jesus is, but we do.”
“But Who do you say I am?”
“You will never be less than you are today... However, you are responsible for becoming more than you are today!”
“Do not blame your parents for who you are. They gave you the genes, but you choose how to wear them.”
“It is easy to look at someone and see their wrongs. It is another thing entirely to look in the mirror and have the same level of honesty.”
“The strongest leader is one who can admit they are wrong and grow from their mistakes in front of those they lead!”
“No one is born with Positive Passion. This Power is ignited by Inspiration!-RVM”
“Only the part we know is known”
“God got it all wrong;
of who ought to be wearing dicks and balls.”
“We have evolved to grow larger hands and smaller spines.”
“We have evolved to grow larger hands and smaller spines.”
“When we lose one blessing, another is often most unexpectedly given in its place”
“The earth had two children; A son named Adam and a daughter”
“Dream & plan to defeat the monster called poverty in a way that poverty will be ashame & also regret for venturing into your life in the first place.”
“Anywhere you see a successful person,you've just seen a person who has decided never to include the spice called excuse in his meal.”
“The mind is a global phenomenon,never underrate it.”
“Sharing your dreams simply means enlisting the support of the Universe.”
“Do you know? What would be the Moon without the Sun. That would be my life without you.”
“It takes a hungry desire to want to learn and a willing spirit to be able to teach.”
“They say that some are born to lead, and others to follow, but I believe that there are also those who are born to speak, and those who are born to listen. Though words may come naturally to the speakers, their words are often cold and flat. It is often times the listeners who could make a difference, if only they could come out and speak.”
“Consistency and commitment are vital as well as very paramount and crucial to winning in any game of life.”
“It is up to you, right now, to decide which you are going to be. Are you going to be the speaker who never hears, or are you going to be the listener who may one day say it all?”
“The easiest thing you can do_ is what you're doing now.”
“The shortest Sermon, advice, encouragement, motivation and inspiration, is a "Quote".”
“Determination increases your faith ruggedly.”
“The person blaming others for his lack of success is like the CEO, of a company blaming his messenger for making his company not to succeed,for you are the CEO of your life.”
“Always embrace the little things,for they are the seed that produces the fruit called the big things.”
“The inside world is greater than the outside world,that's why belief is greater than strength.”
“If contentment were to be a meal 99% of humans will despise it,but ironically it is the meal that births wealth.”
“The poverty you experience today is prosperity in disguise.”
“The strongest man in life can never make the impossible possible,but only our beliefs.”
“Discouragement is a negative emotion with more than one trick up its dark
sleeve. It tricks you into mentally or emotionally dwelling in the very place you
want to leave.”
“The mind is a global phenomenon,use it with every dexterity.”
“Potential: You have what it takes, your qualities and ability may take time to develop but it will if you do not quit, it will lead you to success!!! God created everyone of us with Potential. You can do this. Have a great day.A Legair”
“Not that I am one but a prodigy is more likely to parent a prodigal than a 'repeat'”
“In every minute of our lives, somewhere in this world, someone will die, but not from their fault, or not from their cause, not from a natural disaster and not from a natural cause. They will die because of a person who wants to take a life of another person for no apparent reason.”
“Sometimes we don't say exactly what we mean
And we don't mean exactly what we say.”
“A good education means nothing without motivation.”
“Do not assume that people will come to your aid. Some of the world's most successful people got started all on their own. You want something? Go out and make it happen. It's as simple as that.”
“There are three characteristics of wisdom: knowledge, experience and patience.”
“Life is a Canvas. Every action of ours is a stroke of paint and at the end, how beautiful our painting is will depend upon all our strokes, all our Actions. -RVM”
“Don't move unless God says so, the milk and honey you're looking for may not be the one prepared by God just for you”
“We need more men and less thugs, more educated people and less ignorant people”
“You are the owner of your destiny. Your life depends on you.
If you fail...it's your fault for giving up.
If you succeed you are the one responsible.
People are there only as stepping stones for us to climb the ladder of success, but we are the ones that still need to take every step up that ladder.”
“Imagination is activating the SIM card of your Super Conscious.-RVM”
“The world is phenomenal and you are extraordinary, with seven billion people in this world...we have seven billion inspirational and truly beautiful stories.”
“No faith will ever turn the Truth.”
“I have learned in life that people will always talk. If you do wrong they criticize you and if you do right they applaude you. You can never please everyone at the same time, so I have decided to make my choices based on what I think and make sure that in all of them I please God. All our choices have to be conscious in order to avoid having to regret any of them and rather learn from the wrong choices.”
“Ordinary minds never believe in great things,because their minds have been permanently tuned to the ordinary channel.”
“The mind is ever ready to express itself for good,even when faced with extreme poverty.”
“My eyes were closed but I could see your smile
I can't hear a thing but your voice echoes my mind”
“My writing makes a difference to me. My stories make a difference to the reader.”
“I've recently learned the following: Earth is my home. The Universe provides my energy frequency. God is my life source.
When I think about these in meditation my world opens and I am limitless.”
“Catch the dream before the dream catches you”
“You must do what you WANT, not what you feel you NEED to do. In the end, its what you want which makes you most happy. Follow your dreams and never give into societys criticisms!”
“We make mistakes all the time and cannot avoid them. However, we should never regret the mistakes we make as we learn from every one of them.”
“The difficult task is not to become successful, but to remain oneself throughout the process”
“Live you life as it please you, not as it does to others, for you only have one of them”
“Despise knowledge & ignorance becomes your lot.”
“Patriotism is when love of your own people comes first; nationalism, when hate for people other than your own comes first.”
“Life's opportunities are just like the air we breathe & no man can prevent another from breathing his air.”
“Patience is a balloon,the longer you have it,the more it inflates to burst.”
“When falsehood is full to the brim it finds no inspiration anywhere but only gets intimidated.”
“The only real security that a man will have in this world is a reserve of
knowledge, experience, and ability.”
“First become a thinking being & with time most of your life's problems shall become history.”
“Never think lack,because the universe we live in means abundance.”
“There is no such thing as job security only knowledge security!”
“Every man stamps his value on himself... man is made great or small by his own
will.”
“Smart people are not really smart they are just smarter!”
“If your subconscious mind gets procrastination … you suffocate in minutes!”
“Don't let the circumstances define you or confine you, make them refine you”
““If you wake up each day in the morning without the desire to do something, It simply means that you are still sleeping”
“Success means we go to sleep at night knowing that our talents, and abilities were used in the way that served others.”
“The other day I was thinking - because I get a lot of headaches - I was wondering whether the head should be where it is. Because, at the end of the day, it's probably the heaviest part of your body, right??? And yet it's at the top as opposed to, I don't, dangling at the bottom somewhere.”
“Today is a Tomorrow that we thought about Yesterday. Don't worry about Tomorrow. Take care of Today because if you take care of Today, Tomorrow will take care of itself.-RVM”
“Let bygones be bygones. Life is all about moving on.”
“Real Love is like an Immigrant it take you out of your comfort zone.
L Jennel Stephens”
“Hate is no temptation when love is not enough.”
“"The result of the way which you had chosen can see ,
in your future"
_Fathima sanna”
“One thing I have learned is that people will always talk. If you do wrong, they criticize you; if you do right some end up beign envious. So I have decided to make my choices based on what I think and make sure that in all my choices I please God and am 100% aware of what I do so as not to regret any of them.”
“Life does not give you what you need, it gives you what you deserve.”
“Life’s work is not how much you have to do; but how much you get done.”
“I will fight as long as there is an enemy in front of me, a family behind me, and at least one breath of life in me.”
“Happiness doesn't come from replacing what used to make you happy, it comes from substituting it for something better.”
“Don't fret letting go of someone great. If they are great in the right way for you, nothing can keep them away.”
“Never fear to chase your aspirations. Aspirations are impossible without taking a chance at making a change. That all begins with the first step.”
“Finding only one thing in life that can make you happy every time isn't possible. Because happiness doesn't just lie In your surroundings, but rather your perspective, attitude, and how you react to your surroundings.”
“The friends you can count on, you can count on one hand with fingers left over.”
“Without dreams to pursue,life can never be meaningful.”
“Better be poor & have rich values,than be rich,but with poor values.”
“Rather than strive for wealth,man should first strive to have beliefs & then all shall be his.”
“Life can only be interesting tomorrow if we can conceive interesting dreams today.”
“You may think that love cannot last forever, but if you were to wake up with love in your heart every day, how could it not be eternal?”
“Never be scared to aim too high; sooner or later you'll leave the atmosphere where fate and gravity take over. All you need is the momentum to move.”
“Sometimes let downs happen. That's life. So I tell you, my friend, forgiveness is key. Don't burn down any bridges out of spite or jealousy. You never know when you may need to cross that bridge again. For where there is uncertainty, anything is possible.”
“Happiness doesn't come from replacing what used to make you happy, it comes from substituting it for something better.”
“"Cleverness is your best luck." - Dhruvin Raval”
“You can't find the right answers if you don't ask the right questions.”
“We can't find the right answers if we don't ask the right questions.”
“Be what you want to be in life without making what you are being be the Pain behind why others cannot make their being for themselves fulfilled, in other words, we are linked to the downfall and rise of one another!”
“Never feel intimidated by defeat nor death,but rather intimidate life with your dreams.”
“There is no education in life as to empty your mind into a particular venture.”
“Of what use is your Wealth and Kingdom if you don't have the Liberation and Freedom to Be what you want to Be.-RVM”
“Footsteps are there to show us the progress we've made.”
“keep hoping in tomorrow & one day tomorrow shall manifest your dreams.”
“One quality about me is that when I really want something I will never give up to fight for it no matter how many times I fail, I always believe that I can make it. I just never give up. In fact that's what keeps me going in life.”
“There is limitation to what haters can cause to your destiny.”
“Don't look back on your life saying 'I coulda' while standing in a pile of 'shoulda'”
“Purify your thoughts until they match the true Intension of your heart.”
“Since the social victim has been oppressed by society, he comes to feel that his
individual life will be improved more by changes in society than by his own
initiative. Without realizing it, he makes society rather than himself the agent of
change. The power he finds in his victimization may lead him to collective action
against society, but it also encourages passivity within the sphere of his personal
life.”
“Eliminate desire. Affirm great things.”
“One day you will be the happiest person in this world. Why not make that day be today!”
“I’m not an expert but any religion that advocates throwing the rest of humanity 'under the bus' has very little credibility in my mind”
“We can keep ourselves in an emotionally reactive state or we can learn to soften.”
“Make LOVE the one and only habit.”
“Knowledge as such can never be worthless.”
“The danger is being so sure of someone else's reasoning without ever asking them.”
“That which IS, never demands.”
“Marry your thought with emotions and the Universe will be yours.”
“Every challenge that comes into our life can either make us or break us. The choice is yours to be a victim or victorious!”
“When you feel you have lost your way, simply turn within.”
“The Power Within
Forgiveness- Healing- Peace- Love- Bliss- Unity
DIVINITY
And So IT Is...
Sent from my iPhone
The Power Within
Forgiveness- Healing- Peace- Love- Bliss- Unity
DIVINITY
And So IT Is...”
“When we learn to recognize darkness as a feeble, we begin to understand Love is always there as a basis for All that exists.”
“When you waste a moment, you have killed it in a sense, squandering an irreplaceable opportunity. But when you use the moment properly, filling it with purpose and productivity, it lives on forever.”
“Think good and it will be good.”
“Because time itself is like a spiral, something special happens on your birthday each year...(and).. The same energy that God invested in you at birth is present once again.”
“The one who returns from a distance is greater than the one who was always close. What matters is not so much where you stand, but with what force you are moving in which direction.”
“You can say something nice or hateful, whatever you choose to say know that’s how you’ll last be remembered.”
“Revel in your wholeness.”
“If one has an aspiration to become a well-cited researcher, s/he must constantly strive to give the best efforts in a long-term period.”
“Entangled souls dancing through this life...”
“The degree to which a person reflects or relates himself with his cherished guru in life measures the proportion of the personality traits, attributes and behavioral similarities that summarily exist between them on good and bad value terms equally.”
“FAITH creates Energy that makes Success possible. DOUBT paralyses and makes the possible impossible.-RVM”
“If the solution to man's problems exist only in a planet not yet discovered,Man has the capacity to discover this planet.”
“Not even the sun nor the moon can hinder man's pre-destined sun from shining.”
“Man can never accomplish the impossible,unless he has first dreamt the impossible.”
“Every new belief comes to disrupt the status quo,just the way a virus disrupts the body system,that is why beliefs are always heavily resisted.”
“Why should i cry?why should i loose hope?why should i not have faith,when i still believe there is someone who brought me to the world.......the great maker!!!”
“Friends will ask you,how far with your life,not because they are willing to aid you,but rather some waits to mock you,while others find ways to bring you down,let your dreams be your family,hope and faith be your friends!”
“Talent is not utile until
you have an attitude to use that ability.”
“The best you can do everyday is to make each an every one of them count.”
“Love exists to those that share it.”
“Marriage is not about living the moment, it's about living a life.”
“the most important part of a story is the narrator”
“Why think small when you can think big?”
“Indecision is the seedling of fear”
“We Live Once But we Die many times...”
“They got together and said they were going to do it for her. She was our inspiration, that's for sure.”
“Your mind can work for or against you. The choice is yours.”
“Between every emotion you are feeling, there is space. Allow that space to surface and guide you to a state of peace.”
“Just allow me to dream,for my destiny rest inside it.”
“conquer a battle with LOVE”
“The level of poverty & disappointments man experiences in life serves as a tonic to enable him multiply his capacity to earn wealth.”
“Live simple, live free!”
“Enjoy personal growth even when it comes in the form of discomfort.”
“Loveing someone is but a reality that we create in our state of mind.”
“Pocket change for the wealthy, life change for the poor.”
“Our positive confessions should be in the present & not in the past or future,because our desire is to change our present situation.”
“I shall not complain,because what I have is more than enough to take me to my predestined destiny,one step at a time.”
“fruits of happiness can be tasted by any rookie ,but it takes a real man's guts to taste the bitter melons of sadness ”
“Beware of the person who thinks he has life at his beck & call,for death may just be around the corner.”
“I am never motivated by your small dreams,but it is only gigantic dreams that move me,says the Universe.”
“Superbly enjoy your life,because enjoyment is only for the living.”
“Successful people know how to share their own dreams with other
people.”
“For man to be able to solve life's numerous problems,nature has to endow man with the art of thinking big.”
“The key to tennis is to win one point at a time, one game at a time, and one match at a time.”
“Show me a person who is glad to do small things & I will show you a person who will do great things in future.”
“People who love to give are the people who have something to give. And those who mold the habit of receiving are the people who like to be given. That is why there are people who have nothing to give and there are people who never run out of things to be given.”
“Become your own fortune teller, because only you have the power to bring your dreams into reality.”
“However well organized the foundations of life may be, life must always be full of risks”
“The gym can wait. Fuel your mind with healthy thought.”
“Trust is built, not given.”
“External happiness will never bring stability.”
“Spending too much time remembering the past stops us from building new beginnings.”
“Life's irony; If you tell the mediocre mind how many man hours it will take to purify his talent,he will rather prefer his talent should remain dormant for life.”
“If it is yours, it will be yours. If it is not, then it's not.”
“There is a reason for everything and that reason IS Love.”
“Its in you're weakest moments that you get a chance to prove to you're self just how strong you really are.”
“Its in you're weakest moments that you get a chance to prove to you're self just how strong you really are.”
“Do for this life as if you live forever, do for the afterlife as if you die tomorrow”
“What’s the purpose of living if you’re not living for a purpose”
“Hatred always burn ourselves first before it reaches other people.”
“Witnessing another day helps us to appreciate life one more time & also utilize our beliefs one more time to better our world.”
“Intellectual capacity is related to the ability of solving problems in the right manner.”
“Never say "I don't have." When someone demands financial assistance from you & you know you have,because if you do,you will be telling your subconscious being to record lack in your life & lack shall never depart from your life.”
“Never say "I don't have." when someone demands financial assistance from you,even if you truly don't have,because if you do,you will be sowing more lack into your already lacking life,but rather say,"how I wish I HAVE.”
“Life's Irony;Some of the positive comments we make about ourselves like,"am rich" even when you are abjectly poor,will eventually manifest itself if not now,maybe within a generation.”
“Something that flows naturally will reach the destination, so does something that is not.”
“In order for our tomorrow to be successful,let us embrace the failures we are experiencing today with joy,for failure breeds success if we remain steadfast & positive about it.”
“Why complain if your financial state is not buoyantly the same in all seasons,when even the intensity of the sun that shines today will be different from that which will shine tomorrow.”
“The wise feed on principles only,but the unwise feed on ”anything that goes" as long as it brings food into the belly.”
“Socialism is Communism in it's infancy”
“Life's irony;To be dreamless in life is akin to being sentenced to life in prison,because in both situations,you will be dependent on government for life.”
“The power to overcome the temporal frustrations of the moment,is by learning to switch your minds chanel into your dream world.”
“Your dreams can only expand if you are blessed with the elasticity band called possibility thinking.”
“Our beliefs can actually make this world look sick,thereby making our beliefs the only healthy factor in life.”
“I am here in this life to perform a great miracle in the art of believing.”
“Taking action gives us a real sense of who we are and why we are here. Placing blame or fault empowers others through our immobility. What bothers you the most in others, find that same fault in yourself; take action to change yourself, then act to change the world.”
“Don't let other people's thoughts of you disrupt your own”
“Your day is determined by your attitude. Change your attitude, you change your day.”
“What stops us from making changes in our lives? Fear. Change and the unknown present us opportunities, yet most of us remain in the comfort of our known lives.”
“We have control over our thoughts and feelings! We can change them! Take control today and live your life in peace and joy!”
“Want peace in the world? Find it in yourself first.”
“Be patient with yourself. Treat yourself as you treat others. Don't forget that you need care too.”
“Our greatest enemy is not lurking somewhere to get us. Rather, it is our own negative thoughts. Change your thoughts.”
“To be perfect be the best you that you can be in the now of the present moment.”
“Grab success out of the jaws of failure”
“In our daily lives, we must see that it is not happiness that makes us grateful, but
the gratefulness that makes us happy.”
“If the past was what we were meant to see…then behind, not in front, our eyes would be. -RVM”
“Great goodies are in the offing of the one whose friend is positive belief.”
“Once your mind is there to help you,then you may need no other helpmate.”
“Wisdom binds the Truth.”
“I don't believe in regions or religions, I believe in reasons!”
“Wisdom will unite the Truth.”
“Wisdom will bind the Truth.”
“There is a price for everything you do in this lifetime,if you do good,good will follow you.”
“To divide is to hinder.”
“The only difference between being in the know now, is the k.”
“All we have is the present moment. Focus on it; don't miss an experience by living outside of the current moment.”
“If you believe you can and your whole body is in turn with your mind then you are half way there.”
“Whatever is your goal, work and walk towards it daily.”
“Daily,have your eyes on the price, the prize and the rise in achieving your goals.”
“Increased stress does not necessarily lead to feelings of being overwhelmed and exhausted; instead, it may provide motivation to work harder as the stress is perceived as a “challenge” rather than an obstacle.”
“Nothing in this world could ever be worth the trouble, that is unless you had to lose a limb to get it...”
“Man has the capacity to subdue the universe only with his beliefs.”
“Change is constant,because humanity loves not the static.”
“Feeling gratitude and not expressing it is like wrapping a present and not giving it.”
“When you are grateful fear disappears and abundance appears”
“Joy is the simplest form of gratitude.”
“We are shaped by our thoughts; we become what we think. When the mind is pure, joy follows like a shadow that never leaves.”
“When you wish someone joy, you wish them peace,
love, prosperity, happiness... all the good things.”
“Have a look at your fingers they are not all the same,so don't compare yourself with anyone.Be thankful of how God made you.”
“I offer you peace. I offer you love. I offer you friendship. I see your beauty. I hear your need. I feel your feelings. My wisdom flows from the Highest Source. I salute that Source in you. Let us work together for unity and love.”
“The unity of freedom has never relied on uniformity of opinion”
“In matters of truth and justice, there is no difference between large and small problems, for issues concerning the treatment of people are all the same.”
“Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere.”
“Human progress is neither automatic nor inevitable... Every step toward the goal of justice requires sacrifice, suffering, and struggle; the tireless exertions and passionate concern of dedicated individuals.”
“Knowledge is the basic force of the spirit.”
“I was born to be naive nerd, and i'm happily grateful”
“To achieve Greatness, you must first harmonize the Mind and Soul.”
“We are products of our history, of our decisions. If you don't like yourself, change your attitude and decisions today, for tomorrow today is your history.”
“If you have nothing to give to people, give them gentle smile and (or) kind word!
Give them love; give them compassion; give them encouraging words; give them your heart!”
“To receive a thank you note in your mailbox means you did something extraordinary; that you left a unique impression; that you will never be forgotten!”
“The only thing I ever failed at was, trying to be normal like everyone else.”
“You know where God is. You know where the Devil is. And you know where your going, hell or heaven.”
“Boredom is the soul saying is starving for purpose, feed it because boredom kills”
“Look inside of yourself to find what fuels your inner fire and when you do find it, feed it”
“You are at war with yourself everyday, but it can only get better when you choose a side”
“He who's imagination faculty is very potent shall become an enemy to life's challenges.”
“We have not been able to solve life's numerous problems,because we have most times ignorantly refused to add a coma or a fullstop to the solutions we are researching.”
“Give me only imagination & I will give you everything the world desires.”
“Life offers all reason and season to enjoy and spread smile only if one has no prison to confine his good words and philanthropic activities.”
“The small dreams you have dreamt is a seed never to despise,but that which can catapult you unto bigger dreams.”
“Success simply means out of many attempts comes one positive attempt.”
“Just the way the millions of semen released to fertilize an egg misses the mark,but only one succeeds,so also in life success is always difficult to come by.”
“You see.... there is always a better mouse-trap; the problem is that today there is no one brave enough to build one....”
“You can learn things from mistakes and get closer to success.”
“Ye that are poor,rejoice in your poverty,because poverty is the genuine way to prosperity.”
“Help another to succeed & success becomes your birthright.”
“Remember: If you're not experiencing failure, you're not working hard enough!”
“Don't allow your thoughts to process into anger simply because a loved one can't/won't make you a priority in their lives, just take time to reevaluate why they're a priority in yours!”
“The mind is the very foundation of your life,therefore solidify it daily with positive thoughts.”
“Life's irony;The person who gives you an inspirational book of less than $20 is greater than the one who gives $10,000 cash,because the one that gives a book wants the foundation of your life to be altered for good.”
“First Know the level of wealth you desire to acquire,so that you will know the type of thoughts you will include in your thinking agenda.”
“All problems can be arrested if we learn to combine both the known & unknown resources in harassing it.”
“Just as gold must be smelted in hot burning furnace before unleashing its shine & purity,so also in life sometimes man may need to undergo tribulations in order to bring out the genius in him.”
“If we don't totally utilize our dream resources in life,where else are we going to utilize them?”
“Life's irony;Out of a wretched & hopeless life,prosperity may just be waiting to emerge.”
“Never despise your small dreams,for inside them bigger dreams may emerge.”
“To become a multinational in life,you've got to first become a multinational in your thinking.”
“Things become possible when they are filtered through our positive belief system.”
“I am what I am today not by my might or by my strength but by the grace of the most high God.”
“In other to make every day to be fruitful in life,you need to force yourself if need be to be excited & passionate about the day.”
“Life's irony;Those you look unto as your godfathers or mothers,may eventually become your godchildren,if you are bold enough to venture out & unleash your full potentials.”
“When life gives you boredom, give it your insanity.”
“If you want to be fully successful in life with no regrets learn to read and meditate on the good book of wisdom the Bible and all shall be added on to you.”
“It's a complex world,for if we all share same problems,we may most likely require different solutions.”
“The wise worship & fantasize with the word belief,to really know how much they can benefit from the unlimited word,for they know that to believe is to become.”
“Its a big world out there & its only the big dreamers that can conquer her.”
“Age is not how old you are, but how many years of fun you’ve had.”
““I McThink therefore I McAm - McShakespeare"”
“All our dreams can come true...if we have the courage to pursue them.”
“What is a King without a Queen?
A King.”
“Dream big, work hard and believe in yourself.”
“I make them wonder, how am I killin' it.”
“I don't even try, not in the least bit, I know game inside out, yet practice it not. Ive walked the dark side. Won many wars, watched many battle it out Wide Eyed. I've moved in the shadows before I chose the light. My friend this is not weakness, shyness or inability. Look deeper.. this is a choice... my friends this is love... this is mercy !”
“It's only the coward that is afraid of tomorrow,but the brave is even ready to confront tomorrow today.”
“In temptations I shall not fall but by the wisdom of God I shall over come all obstacles in Jesus name. Amen!!”
“Love is not just a feeling, it is an action; it is a verb. Get out today and love!”
“The power to magically make things happen in life,is by learning to always have a ten year plan.”
“Even with your little resources,dare to dream big.”
“See the world with your dream eyes.”
“I will not pretend to know the evil you have seen, nor will I act as though I understand. I will, however, be there for you, comfort you, and pretend, just for a moment, that the ones who began this period of atrocity, this war between free man and free man alone, the ones that started it all, never existed, and therefore their decisions have never been made, and that everything is, and will never cease to be alright.”
“I'm really thankful for the fact that we can dream. Also, because of the fact that dreams do come true.”
“My daily decisions determine my ultimate destiny.”
“The price tag you put on yourself decides your worth. Underestimating yourself will cost you dearly.”
“We are all lost inside this world,but only our beliefs can make us to be found.”
“Show the world the stuff you are made of,but in this life.”
“To pursue a bigger dream,you need all the faith you can muster.”
“Death is not the end. It's just a bend to transcend. -RVM”
“It comes a time when the music stops and you become your own motivation.”
“Girl:-
when she is born, she is the most beautiful..
when she is grown up, she has her own charm..
when she is married, she becomes responsible..
when she is a mother, she is just adorable..
when she becomes grand-mom, she brings best out of her..
Respect women around ous..”
“work less, act more..."
"sleep less, dream more..."
"show less, love more..."
"read less, adapt more..."
bcoz, the more you do its always less..”
“Do not ever be depressed about the things you can not change.”
“LIFE IS THE NAME OF A STAGE PLAY BY DESTINY SO WHY NOT BE THE CREATORS OF OUR OWN FATE.”
“SOME SAID THAT I AM A FIRE STARTER SOME SAID THAT I AM DEVIL SOME SAID THAT I AM FACE OF SATAN NOW I SEE THEM DREAMING TO REACH ME AS I WAS NOT THE PART OF ANY SIN AS THEY SAID.”
“Life owes you nothing but death, live each day to it's fullest until there are no days left!”
“Use the losses and failures of the past as a reason for action, not inaction.”
“There is nothing we cannot do inside life,if only we can breathe life into that thing.”
“To impact the universe is no small dream,for it is a big dream that requires every dexterity to achieve.”
“Idea is like a hit music that requires every dexterity to compose.”
“I come to the office each morning and stay for long hours doing what has to be done to the best of my ability. And when you've done the best you can, you can't do any better.”
“Success is fleeting when you jeopardize your integrity to get it.”
“Have you seen a person wrothing great things in life? Its because he has within him baggages of beliefs.”
“Man loves to sit on potentials,he never knows what he can really accomplish,until he stands up & gives it a hard try.”
“Rather than say,"I don't have money",say I am a multi-millionaire,for I have more than enough to enjoy myself & also give to charity.”
“There is nothing in this life,but only the dreams we can birth inside it,is the main thing.”
“Opposition is like a tonic that further strengthens the bold.”
“Just as we've got 7 inevitable days in a week & each day is repeated 52 times in a year,so also in life an idea repeated automatically imprints itself in the subconsciousness of life.”
“Inspiration is a farce that poets have invented to give themselves importance.”
“To have dreams & ideas is a huge burden,the burden of whether they will see the light or not,but we have no other option than keep dreaming,because that is the only route to greatness.”
“Like a child you can always believe to live again embryo donot ague they become their end product see what you want to become like a child believe and live on.”
“The poor fear to dream,but the rich dream without fear.”
“Never show the world that you are poor,but rather show the world the riches embedded inside of you.”
“Whats your dream nurture it give birth the world will be a better place because of it live full, live your dream.”
“There is a limit to everything including poverty and suffering take a bald step, step-out you will soon realized you have been long overdue for the move you just took.”
“Happiness is an emotional blessing. Peace is a spiritual depth.”
“Deliver what we planed and wait for me to talk, but if i talk, something is wrong.”
“As long as we can stand on the ground & can also see the sky,all things are possible.”
“The universe begins to work in your favor,when you boldly speak out an idea.”
“Anywhere you go make sure you carry your baggages of dreams,for life is incomplete without dreams.”
“Mozart isn't just pretty and isn't just emotional. There's another layer of inspiration which we all need.”
“Carrying a very big dream is a big burden,because the poor people around you may not understand the kind of burden you are carrying.”
“To be pregnant simply means to carry two people's dream,after you have perspired with your spouse,which will birth after nine months,but should you have a miscarriage,it shows your dreams have been temporarily aborted,however should the baby come before nine months,it shows you are too eager to birth your dreams.”
“Never be angry if another person achieves a feat,but rather be encouraged that if he can do it,it shows you can.”
“"It is the road you take that decides your destiny and not your destiny that decides the road you take." Apoorve Dubey”
“We can't continue to live in fear when poverty abound.”
“Its not about what school you went to or go to its about how u change the world.”
“Sky is not the limit if your heart is in it, for when you do something with all your heart, it just happens.-RVM ‪”
“[The lover says:] How beautiful you are, now that you love me”
“BIGGEST PART IN LIFE IS LEARNING TO ACCEPT. ACCEPT CHANGE BECAUSE CHANGE IS OUT OF YOUR CONTROL . SO YOU MUST MOVE ON ACEEPTED IT AND EMBRACE LIFE .”
“If you have hate in your heart, you can't love to the fullest.”
“The easiest thing to do in life is to be a non thinker,for every thinker carries a huge burden.”
“Between the saints and the Infinite there is no difference. The man who knows this truth is a wise person.”
“Invest the whole of your positive mind into the enterprise called today & you shall reap bountifully from it without regret.”
“Just because you have problems, it doesn’t mean you should not have Dreams. Instead, let your Dreams become the scheme to solve your problems.-RVM”
“Faith speaks,but in action.”
“God never asks questions,but only gives answers in blessings.People never seek answers from themselves; and just keep asking questions to HIM only”
“I've lived, and I've loved, so I've learned that life will never cease to complicate, confuse, and amaze, so live life to it's fullest, enjoy the good and fight through the bad, in the end you will come out shining!”
“The Moment You Settle for Mediocrity is the Exact Second that Your Growth Abruptly Stops.”
“Don't allow criticism to frustrate you. Understand that it's part of life and business. Learn from it and press on!”
“Life has taught us that love does not consist in gazing at each other, but in looking outward together in the same direction”
“Dare to dream,for only dreams can take you to places you never dreamt of.”
“No matter how wise we may believe we are,we are still very ignorant of many things,so we need to daily add to our knowledge bank,to defeat the ignorance that abound in our lives.”
“Oh!Pitiful man,for he has never fully enjoyed the many goodies life has in stock for him,because he has been in bondage,not of the devil,but of his negative mentality & ignorance.”
“Everyday there will be an opportunity to Smile or to Frown, to Dance or to Drown, to be Glad or Sad. It's a Choice!-RVM ‬”
“Honesty is certificate of trust.”
“Sluggish people always blame time like "My time has not come yet." And I say, it is the time.”
“Take care of yourself, and the world will take care of itself.”
“How often do we miss the serendipitous beauty of the many facets of the people
who populate our world? If we only look, we'll surely find more than we could
ever imagine. Not only in others, but in ourselves as well.”
“Be inspired by your life, not by someone else's quote.”
“Be compassionate to judgmental , jealous or angry people, they already suffer so much being themselves. Be happy , be flexible and shine your light on them.”
“Let the pain to expend your heart.”
“When you've tried your best and your best isn't good enough, try God.”
“If you cant fly.. Run
If you cant Run.. Walk
If you cant walk.. Crawl
But keep Moving.. Ahead !”
“Look at the people around you. Some Inspire you, some Perspire you. Be with those that build Energy in you.-RVM ‪”
“As you make things happen for others,providence will never let you down,for it will also make things happen for you.”
“The only person I know that didn't Lie they crusified.”
“Let us learn the art of dreaming big,so that we can be as far as we can possibly be,from the monster called poverty.”
“The mind is like an inelastic rubber,once stretched with ideas,it never returns to its original state.”
“Face present,live the moment & keep faith on future to blow you away for you efforts will make em explode!!!”
“Life is made up of Moments. Moments create Days, days create Months, months create Years, years create LIFE. Lose the Moment and you lose Life.-RVM”
“Reinventing the wheel is foolish. Retreading its tires is necessary.”
“Leaders are defined by their ability to see leadership in others.”
“Musicians speak the language of music, artists speak the language of art, I speak the language of thought. It is only when our language is understood that our duty is done.”
“I've been influence by many talents different expressions that keep me in balance”
“I am a woman not defined by gender nor by class. I am a woman defined by relevance and social standing. I have heard them say that class cannot be bought. Please allow me to rephrase " attitude cannot be bought".”
“Don't worry about what others think of you. It doesn't matter as long as you have your own Convictions and are proud of what you do.-RVM”
“When you get rid of your own personal feelings regarding a situation or event, what you're left with is objectivity and all the other things that are good for your soul, like mercy, forgiveness and grace.”
“You will always hear the people who tell you that you are nothing; that you cannot accomplish anything, that you will fail, that you will never amount to anything, and that you will never reach your dreams. The one you don't hear is the person who would hoist you on their shoulders to prove everyone else wrong.”
“The more and more I live, the more and more I know, that God has it all in control.”
“When a person thinks he will find the answers he will find the answers he is looking for”
“Seeking peace? Find love within yourself and share that love with others. Then you will have peace.”
“If life's challenges are sent to make you stronger, then I must be like Hercules!”
“Music is the Godly part of Man.”
“Birthdays are the best thing we can collect: the more birthdays we collect, the more years we live.”
“Keep finding windows of opportunity and make them your doors for success.”
“For those who love what they do, even working 18 hours a day, 7 days a week is not work at all. It is just fun. -RVM”
“Be thankful for what you have; you'll end up having more. If you concentrate on what you don't have, you will never, ever have enough.”
“You can NEVER manipulate confidence!”
“Trust is built in communication and relationships.”
“Today is the start of a new tomorrow!”
“Motivation IS the foundation!”
“People will admit a want but avoid a need.”
“Don’t let the present pass in sorrow, hoping that the future will be full of Joy.-RVM #Inspiration #stayinspired”
“Our lives it's like a canvas It’s full of whatever we imagine it to be. So paint whatever you want on it. Then sign the canvas and sell it to yourself because you know yourself better than anyone else!”
“The only thing that sets you apart is your story.”
“Without commitment, nothing changes.”
“It's not our differences which divide us; rather, it's our lack of understanding our differences which divides us.”
“Women with "pasts" interest men because men hope that history will repeat itself.”
“I just want to live till I Die. I want to open my wings and fly.-RVM #Inspiration #Stayinspired”
“The happiness of most people we know is not ruined by great catastrophes or fatal errors, but by the repetition of slowly destructive little things”
“A Leader must see his profession as a Vocation rather than a Duty.”
“Don't always be a selfish person and learn to be a selfless...”
“I love my belief,because my belief is my destiny just waiting to manifest.”
“No race has the monopoly of ideas,for if only you can key into your inner being,there is a fountain of ideas in there.”
“The longer you stay in the wilderness of tribulations,the more you shall draw from the wells of wisdom.”
“It wasn't until I witnessed the dark that I truly understood the value of light.”
“In this life,it's either you are positive or negative,a creator of circumstance or a creature of circumstance.”
“Faith never desires to work alone,for it always works with action.”
“Put on your dreaming suit today,to continue your dreaming adventure,because as long as you are alive dreaming should never end.”
“No confíes tus secretos a tu mejor amigo, serán armas en tu contra.”
“More then a thousand words written, but no notes to make a song.
It shouldn't be this hard, and it shouldn't take this long.
Some inspiration needed, to lead me to my goal,
No music found, to match the lyrics of my soul.”
“Life isn't always easy, that's a fact. Another fact; life is doable. Do your best and keep moving forward.”
“There is a befitting tomorrow for the one who prepares with a befitting idea today.”
“The best argument against democracy is a five minute conversation with the average voter.”
“Any problems that exist in life,it exist because the mind has been put in the dark partaining that problem.”
“I am not perfect. Are you? Let us accept the fact that nobody is perfect. Let us learn to accept our imperfections as well as those of others.-RVM #Inspiration #stayinspired”
“The point of giving is not always to do the right thing. But, its to feel the right way.”
“The point of giving is not always to do the right thing. But, its to feel the right way.”
“Abomination is the word,to come to this big world,just to dream small.”
“Do you want to make your Life exciting? Then find a purpose that will make you jump out of bed each day with Enthusiasm, Power and Excitement.-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎Stayinspired‬”
“Authors are some of the best actors in the world - with multiple personality disorder.”
“Life is not meant to be riches and royalties its all about the euphoria that helps us seek the quality of lifestyle we deserve. Life is family and seeking a peace within your heart that makes you want to live the rest of your life in inspiration and a balance only fit for you.”
“Most of the poor will continually remain poor,because they are scared of big dreams.”
“Dream on & dream big,for your big dreams can never collapse the world,it will only Expand it.”
“How can you get what you want if you do not know what you are seeking? -RVM #Inspiration #stayinspired”
“Indians - "We move where the masses move"!”
“The great people see the heart of people. Ego fades fast from the greatest people. Respect yourself and those around you. Feel the beat of another's heart and know them for whom they are. Give your heart to others to hold. Refrain from putting others down and help their heart move forward. When the world gets cold, drop your pride and put your heart to theirs. Show people your soul and raise their ego. Give love to those who deserve it, together you will warm the world and live life happily.”
“Like the butterfly effect, one thing you do changes the course the world takes. The world only spins in one direction, but the things that happen on Earth change everyday. You could be the person that changes someone else or yourself. Make a new start for you and the world.”
“Like the butterfly effect, one thing you do changes the course the world takes. The world only spins in one direction, but the things that happen on Earth change everyday. You could be the person that changes someone else or yourself. Make a new start for you and the world.”
“In shallow waters, shrimps make fools of dragons.”
“The words "I don't care" are an evil entrapment, don't get your foot caught in Satan's snare!”
“LIFE is like, Riding a HORSE.....
Learn to manage with the JERK
OR you'll be THROWN!!!!!”
“The worst part of LIFE is not when you're not VALUED in the OUTSIDE WORLD..... BUT its when you have THE WHOLE WORLD standing with you BUT not your FAMILY!!!!!”
“Everything Was Once New”
“ I was once nestled in a cocoon but baby now i feel free as a butterfly”
“If i'm going to live this life might as well live an interesting one.”
“Those who have the FREEDOM to Row can get to where they want to Go!-RVM #Inspiration #stayinspiration”
“The wise only possess ideas; the greater part of mankind are possessed by them.”
“The road to stardom requires painstaking & strategic planning.”
“To conquer this life is to fear no one including your mind & death.”
“The brave must never befriend the timid,or else the timid will inflict the spirit of timidity into the brave.”
“Quotations are word innovations.”
“The rich & humble has the potentials of becoming richer,because even the poor will have mercy on him.”
“Dreaming is a trait only the living & brave can exhibit, so if you are living & brave,then exhibit that trait today.”
“The mind is a limitless machine & can birth as many offspring's as possible,as long as we continuously impregnate it with ideas.”
“Discover your many passions by watching videos that inspire you.”
“Belief is the magical tool that can make all things possible in life.”
“You can never be wise enough in this life,until you have gone through the school of extreeme poverty.”
“Your purpose has got to be greater than your obstacles,for your obstacles to serve as stepping stones to your purpose.”
“There is no government like no government.”
“Endeavor to fill life with exciting activities or else boredom may kill you prematurely.”
“The poor will always be poor irrespective of which nation they are residing,because their minds have not been weaned of poverty mentality.”
“All things are possible inside the world of believe.”
“Let the word proceed first before your dream manifestation,for the word inspires the hostile environment & prepare the ground well for your dreams to arrive safely.”
“What possibilities can man accomplish in this life? Only beliefs can tell.”
““Own initiative is a tooth of the key for door of success””
“Life's irony;Converting our dreams into reality is as easy as being given an opportunity to play a spot kick in the game of football,yet many of us still miss our dreams.”
“Everyday is important,hence each day must be attended to with utmost passion,for you will never see this day in life again,except its anniversary.”
“Today is pregnant with many great potentials,but these potentials can only birth if we dare venture out.”
“The easiest way to Grow, is to let Go. Knowing, that someone else is managing the show!-RVM”
“Music equals Love. It makes you feel home.”
“What Lupe Fiasco says on this microphone is going to come back to Wasalu Jaco. When the music cuts off, you have to go home and live with what you say.”
“Love only grows when yourself is willing to do equally.”
“Love only grows when yourself is willing to do equally.”
“Without the need to earn, but to display lack of appreciation is a portrayal of the ungrateful being overshadowed by their uncounted blessings”
“He died for you, now live for Him!”
“Man's progress would have been more phenomenal than what we are currently experiencing,but doubt is the principal element mitigating against his rising up.”
“The subconscious being understands & interprets faster mental images that have been visualized & verbalized,than mental images alone.”
“Why should man boast of what he has in a vain manner,or be proud or be wicked,when even the next second doesn't belong to him.”
“When you plant your dreams in the subconscious realm,it then becomes a force that directs your every move.”
“We are so busy trying to make a better TOMORROW that we forget to make the best of TODAY.-RVM”
“You that desire to rise to the very top be prepared,for it is lonely but inspiring.”
“We came to this world with nothing,hence what we acquire here must be used here for the benefit of humanity.”
“You don't "learn" until you "realize"!”
“It doesn't matter what you can do, but what you can make others do.”
“I cannot leave this world the same way I met it. If I cannot change it, then I will influence those who can.”
“Determination is not IF I can or IF I will. It's WHEN I can and WHEN I will.”
“Ability is nothing without opportunity.”
“Instead of enjoying the Present Moment, why Dream of things beyond your reach and become miserable? -RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“No Matter how dark is the bottom of the ocean, keep you head above the water and if you see the sky there is hope and there is land”
“Someone who lives meaningfully for 30 years has lived a much longer Life than one who drifted through Life for 60 years.-RVM”
“By going over your day in imagination before you begin it, you can begin acting successfully at any moment.”
“It is better to run out of time than to run out of patience, because when you are patient, you have all of the time in the world.
-Johnathan G. Gonzalez”
“It is better to run out of time than to run out of patience, because when you are patient, you have all of the time in the world.
-Johnathan G. Gonzalez”
“Inside chaos cometh opportunities.”
“Enjoyment is not a goal, it is a feeling that accompanies important ongoing activity.”
“Go where the battle is toughest,so that your victory will be sweeter.”
“Inside our boast are secret tools that can boat our dreams to shore.”
“When men rise to fall your just & standing dreams,providence will also rise with you,to make sure there rise is in vain.”
“Life's irony;In life positive violence may sometimes be the key to the door of success.”
“Your life's problems can never be solved inside any religious house,but inside the house called the positive mind.”
“Rejoice in your closet when men persecute you for a good cause,for providence will also be standing with you.”
“Be an instrument of inspiration instead of blaming other people and creating non-sense frustration.”
“We take inspiration from the comical things in life.”
“If you don't have enemies, that means you did nothing impressive in life.”
“Living in a life of fears, will only bring endless tears”
“Blessed is he who thinks good for others even ahead of himself.”
“If we are here for ourselves, then we have missed the message.”
“Life's Irony;If you are told a special power has just Been deposited in you that can enable you to acquire all that you ever desired,you will immediately begin to activate that power,& you know what,that power is already inside you.”
“Life's irony;Most times people wonder how you managed to secure your breakthrough,but they have not wondered to where your thoughts have wondered to.”
“When you uplift your mind from your present chaos,your situation simply dissipates into thin air,because it no longer has a supporter in your mind.”
“I promise to leave each and every person satisfied, complete, acknowledged and respected.
I stand in love, empowerment, possibility and aliveness.
Who I am, is the possibility of intentional listening, causing leaders, who are fully self expressed and in action, Now!!!”
“There is more than enough wealth in this universe for us all to have our desires met times two,hence no insecurity,austerity,global economic meltdown,bad goverance nor lack of formal education should be able to stop us from achieving our desires,if we have enough will power.”
“An idea of never give up may fail when dealing with human beings. If both of you decides not to give up while arguing, nobody is going to win.”
“Every person needs knowledge and skills before a qualification.
One can do great things without qualification but you can't do great things without best knowledge of them and related skills.”
“Concentrate on what's important, not on what's right or wrong.”
“Never allow poverty distract you from thinking prosperity,for the universe we live in is exceedingly prosperous & prosperity is our heritage.”
“Let your pain be a strategy, not a tragedy!”
“Love is not a desire. It's when you give and do not expect anything in return.”
“When they discover the center of the universe, a lot of people will be disappointed to discover they are not it.”
“Show the world the stuff you are made of,both in thoughts & in deeds.”
“New Beginnings are in order, and you are bound to feel some level of excitement as new chances come your way.”
“Money should be ones demand and not command, one should not become a slave of Money because we made money to help us trade and not to make us, we're already made even without money.”
“There is never jealousy where there is not strong regard”
“The more optimistic you can be the more resilient you will be to whatever challenges life throws at you.”
“We've made our decisions, We've taken our choices, What's left, is only a hand-full of emotions.”
“When "shit happens"..."shit happens"!”
“The moment you view yourself as inferior to the next person nor race,then wellcome to the world of depreciation.”
“Never be too depressed for having not become a success yet,but rather console yourself,that when your success comes,you will have a bigger breakthrough.”
“If you have not learnt anything, but have learnt one thing that the Goal of life is to be Happy, you have learnt everything!-RVM #Inspiration #stayinspired”
“A true leading business comes out of your brain not from your heart..!!!”
“Only few talk about being "real" and then the percentage reduces drastically because standing "true" to your words is the most difficult thing even if you try to force yourself!”
“When you lose, don't lose the lesson.”
“In every situation man finds himself in life,he has the capacity to exhibit either bravery or Fear.If he chooses bravery he will be called the brave or courageous,but if he chooses fear,he will be called a coward.”
“To do something you have to do something”
“When people seem to take everything on themselves that means they might have done something wrong or by mistake!”
“Nossas virtudes e nossos sentimentos são inseparáveis, assim como força e matéria. Quando se separam, o homem deixa de existir.”
“You're a liar if you say you don't lie.”
“A simple way to be grateful is to close your eyes for a minute and think of those who never got a chance to open them.-RVM #Inspiration #stayinspired”
“Earn Nicely, spend wisely and you will live happily.”
“Lets make a change today while everybody takes a day off and waits to make a change tomorrow.”
“If you’re not far enough along to be able to decide, you’re not ready.”
“Wealth is violent and uneasy to acquire, don't blow yourself by rushing. You won't find, you will only get lost on your way to find and you won't find it, Reserve yourself and wealth will find you.”
“Learn to appreciate every moment of your life, stop thinking of the future too much, you have a choice to make a difference in your life at any time you wish.”
“If you like to look at rainbows, expect some rain ...”
“Everything started as nothing.”
“If the words you spoke appeared on your skin, would you still be beautiful?”
“There are two kinds of people in the world, aggressive and passive aggressive…even the saints.”
“... and I'm still writing the unwritten”
“Peace is one of the easiest word to say, but the hardest to achieve”
“An Injury inflicted by an Enemy, rests on the body of the Victim but an Injury Inflicted by a Friend rest on the heart of the Victim”
“To whatever to do for the people they will always remember the last thing you said against them!”
“People who have nothing to give, tend to give the most.”
“If something happens that causes you Pain, remind yourself that you can’t get the Rainbow without a little Rain.-RVM #Inspiration #stayinspired”
“A life dedicated to serving others is the life we should all aspire to live.”
“Any dream is worth dreaming ...let the dream be the beginning, but let it also be your call to action ...whatever your dream - dream it, then be guided by it; for success is not in the dreaming, but in the doing.”
“Do something today that your future self will thank you for.”
“If you will trust your destiny it will be your religion.”
“Life is one big lesson, you learn as you go.”
“Commitment challenges you to set a goal and then to support it with a promise.
You must promise to achieve and never entertain the thoughts of making excuses
or shunning responsibility.”
“Changes and new interests, characterize the time periods a head of us unknowingly.”
“The power to make your thinking process to become as sharp as a razor blade,is by learning to increase your reading tempo.”
“Life's inducers;The soil can naturally grow all crops,but most times it may Need an Inducer or chemical/fertilizer to enable it grow better crops,the body can also naturally heal all ailments,but most times it needs an inducer or chemical/drugs to enable it function better & the mind can also naturally solve all our problems,but most times it also needs an inducer like music or sleep to enable it function better.”
“Life's irony;Every level you find yourself in life is preparatory ground for the next level,for the success you are currently experiencing is only a preparatory ground for your next success level.”
“There is nobody else on earth like you and me. Let us be who we are meant to be.-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“This is still a mystery to me. I meet certain people and their seemingly insignificant yet kind and generous actions change my day; change me. I may not see them again for a long time (if ever) and yet unbeknownst to them they remain a part of my life, a part of me, forever!”
“After all of (human) nature's forces I'm still standing.”
“Just as your car runs more smoothly and requires less energy to go faster and farther when the wheels are in perfect alignment, you perform better when your thoughts, feelings, emotions, goals, and values are in balance.”
“So with polygamy do you double the pleasure or triple the pain?”
“Love makes life meaningful and the world more beautiful; if it makes your life more miserable then it isn't love.”
“Consider your self as a strong person when you have been challenged enough...(think about it) If you have allowed people to continually step all over you,then you deserve to be used as a doormat!”
“Self-love doesn't just happen by luck, you have to create it.”
“Having what you want may give you Achievement. But wanting what you have will give you Fulfillment.-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“In order for you to succeed, learn to struggle in all four seasons, for opportunity has no date or an exact time to find, you will only get what you need by trying everthing you know, without fear or shame.”
“We live in a very entertaining world, but the sad fact is that so much of that entertainment is fruitless and empty. Only building nothing but failure and sadness.”
“It's a personal duty to protect ourselves from emotional hazards. Stay away from people who emit and trigger bad emotions.”
“In life, some laugh, some cry, some live, some die. The choice is ours to crawl or to fly.-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“Be yourself never underestimate yourself.
Yet dont lose respect and hope be the shining knight you were once.
For we have been infiltrated by darkness, shall we rise and light our paths once again.”
“I have never seen a life so filled with dreams that can only be activated & pursued with a brave heart.”
“When you do something you're never done before, no matter how poorly it turns out, you're on your way to
doing it better the next time.”
“Chaos looks chaotic,but the miracle seed called opportunity may be residing inside it.”
“Embrace challenges whole heartedly,for life is nothing without it.”
“Never force yourself against your beliefs,but rathet let your beliefs take pre-eminence in your life.”
“To the extent that we are intent on helping others in and around our lives, if we do not take action on our intentions, there is no outward evidence that we are any more genuine in character than someone steeped in narcissistic behavior where their life is the only life that matters.”
“Living in the world till the end is not a great thing but, living in the hearts of the people even after death is a big VICTORY...”
“The fool runs from challenges,but the wise embraces them,for he knows that challenges makes life thick.”
“Use your noggin and other people’s too… especially if they're smart”
“I'm an artist, I need my sleep!”
“Talking to JESUS is my Dream,Reaching JESUS is my Goal,Living with JESUS is my everything....”
“God is only Love.
Only God is Love.
Love is only God.... 13©.”
“Never Love that which does not reply.”
“GOD is Only LOVE is GOD; Love is Only GOD is Love.”
“Where ever you plan to go, then move, what ever you you plan to do, get it done. Never stand still, because without enduring you will never make it over the hill.”
“To achieve excellence in all we do, we must model excellence in all we do.”
“If we fail to accept change in our life, we will never become who our potential says we can be!”
“Life's irony;The ordinary mind seek for the minor things of life,while the extra-ordinary mind seek for the major things of life & the major things of life births the minor things of life.”
“Man is helpless without beliefs.”
“Life's irony;Most people complaining of poverty are not poor in the real sense,but they only have poor ideas.”
“The poor should never be despised,because most of today's rich that we celebrate were once poor.”
“Great information without an equally as great decision to act upon it is wasted opportunity, and robs you of your greatest potential.”
“We are articulately designed, down to the very specifics. There is no other person on the planet that looks, talks or acts like YOU. How precious is this? We are CHOOSEN.”
“It feels like all the planets were about to align but then Uranus decided to be an ass and it caused everything to go downhill”
“Light travels faster than everything but not TIME”
“Thank you for today, and if I should make it to tomorrow, thank you so much for that too; I’m blessed and thankful.”
“Be freed from the captivity of race and forge your own path in life with your actions instead of your ethnicity.”
“If your Life is full of Sorrow, then beg, steal, or borrow ENTHUSIASM from a great soul to make your Life whole.-RVM”
“Problems should be viewed with the same mindset we view different seasons;rainy, harmatan,summer & winter seasons.For problems are temporal events in life,they will come & eventually go.”
“The difference between the past and the future, is that the future can be shaped whilst the past can only be remembered.”
“Humanity is the cause for our existence,he that despises them is unwise.”
“I don't mind anything if you don't care me now but, i'll kill you if you avoid me later...”
“Saying this tongue-in-cheek but as far as men are concerned women are toys and as far as women are concerned men are tools”
“A good leader can win battles, but a great one shouldn't have to”
“Beauty is a label and so is Nike. what it all comes down to is the quality of the product.”
“Live for the name you wish to leave behind”
“Blessed is he who's life mission is to rescue the poor.”
“Nothing wastes more energy than worrying. It is a ravenous termite of the soul. It is the opposite of faith, and will bring nothing but unwanted and unhealthy emotions. Worry's only equal in destructive force is self-exaltation where narcissism takes complete control of your life. Neither of these have any place in a person's life, let alone the life of a true follower of Christ.”
“An hour of meditation is worth more than 10hrs of work.”
“Talk is cheap,but deed is scarce & expensive.”
“Life's irony;Some are ignorantly in love with poverty,so they keep quiet & shut their destinies & then continue to manage the irritating & pungent smell called poverty.”
“There is nothing as interesting as to be actively involved in Shaping life,while alive.”
“The moment you realize that your own life is not in your hands & that you can sleep this very night & not wake up,you begin to do things in a more rational way.”
“The person who persist despite repeated failures,shall soon defeat the monster,because one day failure will definitely go to sleep.”
“Life's irony; The great encourages more people to plow his success field & harvest success,because he knows his position can never be taken,but the mediocre does the opposite,because he is not sure of his position.”
“If you desire a thing strongly in life,first accept the possibility of your ownership of the thing you desire in your mind & it will just be a matter of time before it will happily manifest in the public.”
“I will be invisible to those who cannot see me for who I am, but shine bright for those who will cherish my light.”
“Man has the capacity to be the very best in his field of endeavor,but he only needs a positive push.”
“Don't choose to commit yourself to something just to be the best at what you do. Commit yourself because you know that having something to show for your life is better than having nothing to show for it. When I look back on my life, I want to know that I used every resource I was blessed with. It's more important to me to do something with what I have in this moment instead of waiting around to do something with things I might have later on.”
“Death is the retirement from life.”
“No more running...its time to find my way!”
“steam·punk
ˈstēmˌpəNGk/
noun:
The process of taking what we have been blessed with and making it everything we dreamed it could be.”
“You'll need all your tools to fix this problem, I'm certain of it!”
“It always seems that those who are most successful in fulfilling their hopes and dreams are the same people who run quickly towards them until they are fully realized”
“Sometimes our flesh might say to us to keep quiet and go along with the crowd. But the Holy Spirit says to stay strong and He will guide us. Through Him we can overcome anything cause in Him we are all overcomers.”
“Morning period is belief & faith period,this is the period that all my dreams must see the light,Afternoon period is dashed hope period,afterall this dream may not be feasible in this life,but evening period is hope period,let us all hope in tomorrow.”
“Never allow poverty & hardship to dissuade you from forging ahead with your dreams,but rather encourage yourself with your quotes.”
“Love, we say, is life; but love without hope and faith is agonizing death”
“It's not Circumstance. It's not Chance. It's the Choice we make that determines the Destiny of Life.-RVM”
“Blessed is he that uses his thinking prowess to think for others.”
“I am in creation mode. I don't know what the finished product will look like but what I do know and what I have seen, it is absolutely amazing and I am so excited!”
“One would be wise to look beyond the skeptic's view of life as co-incidence to see a world of God-incidence, and then govern himself accordingly.”
“A great life is exercised with great patience.”
“If success has eluded you for long,just encourage yourself by saying "Everyone has his or her time.”
“It doesn't cost much to be Happy if the currency of your heart is the blowing of the breeze and the swaying of the trees. -RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“Just the way the mind helps us to arrange a sentence before speaking,it also helps us to arrange our dreams to avoid unnecessary comma's & fullstops to its realization.”
“Got nothing In my pockets but this thought in mind, Im not born to live an ordinary life Im born to shine.”
“There is No Shortcut to Success. There are Many Things that will Give You Instant Gratification, But They will Not Sustain You or Your Business Long-Term. Commit to Paying the Price for Success and Not Taking Shortcuts that will Only Get You Lost.”
“If you make it a Habit to make your Today better than your Yesterday, then for sure, your Tomorrow will be better than your Today.-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“At some point in time, one has to ask themselves, is this all the world has to offer me?”
“Life is vanity & an empty space,but what we create inside life is what makes life valuable.”
“The person we are is not defined by our body. Our body is the machine that we were born with. Our inner soul defines who we are.”
“Where can we find peace? Search within yourself first. We can't give what we ourselves don't have.”
“Effective Marketing is Key to Take Your Business to the Next Level, But You Must Also have Motivation to Keep You Fired Up and Focused. Motivation Plus Marketing is the Formula for Long-Term Success in Your Life and Business.”
“If we can be Glad .........But we choose to be Sad, we Are MAD! ! !-RVM #Inspiration #stayinspired”
“Faith is an infinite subconscious resource far greater than money.”
“Rather than vainly boast about your wealth,boast with it by serving humanity.”
“More shoes less carbon footprint.”
“Shut not your mouth,for your words plus mental images will eventually manifest itself in life.”
“Poverty is an event that exist only in the world of those that lack ideas.”
“Daily watch your steps,for the moment pride begins to control your steps,better retrace your steps.”
“Reality is the perception you create.”
“Just as a pregnant woman must go through chaos & discomfort to birth her dream child,so also in life, inside chaos lies the opportunity to manifest our dreams.”
“I've met a few people who had to change their jobs in order to change their lives, but I've met many more people who merely had to change their motive to service in order to change their lives.”
“A million negative soldiers can never defeat a soldier with a positive idea.”
“Forget the resolutions. Forget control and discipline, too much work. Instead try
experimenting. Go in search of something to fall in love with...something about
yourself, your career, your spouse.”
“Touch, inspire, matter and you will be remembered.”
“That dream is possible,because the word possible or possibility is still relevant in our world today.”
“Anybody can wine and dine, but it takes courage to truly Shine.-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“Bob Kennedy is a true inspiration within the running community. It's an honor to have him represent PUMA and join our Complete Running team. His world-class running experience, athletic knowledge and on-the-ground involvement will help us evolve the division and take it to the next level.”
“Life is a story.
Make yours the Inspirational One.”
“Sometimes, our mirror reflections show our better selves.”
“In life what you ASPIRE will TRANSPIRE—be it Loss or Gain, Sun or Rain, Joy or Pain. -RVM ‪#‎inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“He's been just incredible. He's really been an inspiration to us. It really shows how determined he is to play baseball.”
“When you put your mind to work,magic will be your reward.”
“My mind is an idea box,for I have the capacity to generate viable ideas.What about you?”
“To be tough is better,because when the going gets tough as its bound to happen,its only the tough that knows how to survive in a tough environment.”
“If poor,rather than say I am poor,say I am not yet rich.”
“May your 'Ha Ha' moments be equivalent to your 'Ah Ha' moments.”
“The advantage of dreaming big;If you aim at the sky & don't get there,you may still arive far above the tallest structure in the universe.”
“Hope does not forget the past nor wipe it away. But hope provides the strength and the reason to wake each day and continue on with life. We don't forget; we remember. Yet, as we remember, we continue on into our future.”
“Great soccer is inspiring, on the street and in the stadium, and Nike today celebrates brilliant soccer with the announcement of the perhaps the strongest side ever to represent the United States on the global football stage. Nike soccer is about the joy of playing, whether it be worldwide or here in the United States. Our products, our players and our global brand leadership reflect that.”
“Do you desire to be relevant in life tomorrow,then put on your thinking cap today.”
“Have your own Convictions. Believe in the laws of your Conscience because if you believe in everything, you become nothing.-RVM #Inspiration #stayinspired”
“Each wrong doing we pursue has a motivation behind it. Change your goals and that very same motivation will push you in the right direction.”
“Diana Ross is a big inspiration to all of us. We all grew up watching everything about her -- her mike placement, her grace, her style and her class.”
“awesome Monday! , A starting of a new week! The beginning of new experiences and new things to our life! , another week of giving and Receiving, another week of learning and sharing, another week of reflection and do it better, a new week of love and hope!...”
“Smile all the While. Don't let miseries Pile...for Life is just a Mile.-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“Am never going to dream small because,inside me is a big world,bigger than I can ever imagine.”
“When they say birds are the only things that fly, It's not true. Because I've been flying since the day I met you.”
“The only difference between happiness and sadness is a choice.”
“Do not be satisfied by just getting what you need, strive and work harder to get what you want.”
“One of the most well known secrets to improving your ability to remember your dreams is to place value on them.”
“Attaining achievement is not simple. It is not attain by chance, you have to work with it. There ought to be diligence and own path on the best way to accomplish achievement. It takes much time before having the tree grown foods of your work. As you come the way, you will know the things on the best way to be fruitful. Achievement needs time, exertion and tolerance.”
“Success is not attained by chance, you have to work in order to get it.”
“Everyone suffers personal setbacks. If you're experiencing difficulty in your career or personal life, keep it in perspective - by persevering through your difficulties, you're building a stronger personality in you. Never give up!.”
“Those who say – “I need Motivation” will never create Inspiration that will take them to their Destination.-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎satyinspired‬”
“Awaken to myself
Held captive to my poison.
Release my thoughts to beauty,
Let the rest drown in the ocean.”
“To be free of choice but to choose what is right is what makes a human being”
“Success does not exist in a heart that does not believe”
“You don't need to be rich to have high confidence, all you do need is to be proud of yourself and there you'll go with confidence.”
“The Key To Beating Fear, Is To LIVE A Life So Full There Is No Room For It…
Fear Thrives On Emptiness.”
“Success Definitely isn't Easy, But There's No Need to Over-Complicate It. Stick to Building Your Business with Basic Fundamentals and Stand Firm on Your Rock-Solid Integrity.”
“Better to die for a dream,than live without a dream.”
“Wise Words need Widespread Views..”
“I think if you were to ask anyone, deep down they are truly not satisfied with their lives.”
“I am a great being,for inside me are wells of greatness.”
“Pray for your fantasy to become reality,for it is only then the world can become a fantastic place.”
“Nothing can stop you from achieving what you want, unless you stop believing in yourself, in that case you will be the only obstacle in your path to success...”
“To beat boredom & live life to the fullest,man should endeavor to be more determined than tomorrow.”
“You can think I'm wrong but you know I'm right.”
“Wealth,happiness & health can only be derived from within oneself & not from another,for he that looketh unto another for them is unwise.”
“If your greatness births amidst limitations,you will be highly despised.”
“Fear not to dream,for dreams fear the fearless.”
“It is better to support a dream,than to support vanities.”
“The goal is the vision,the dream,the driving force & the requirements to reach the goal are the obstacles man must summount to reach his dream & if the driving force is formidable all obstacles becomes stepping stones.”
“Today is a special day that will go by very fast, so let’s take every second to make the most out of every moment.”
“Feel the wind, The earth is breathing.
Hear the waves, It's heart is beating. Float along with nature, worries forever sleeping. Sharing eternal peace freely with the living.”
“Do you believe you can do great things with your beliefs? If you do,then go & perform wonders with your beliefs activated with faith.”
“One can have beliefs for a thousand years,but without the application of faith,all will be vanity.”
“By continuing to dream,it shows you have not given up on your dreams,which means there is still hope.”
“A wise person will access what they're up against before they choose what battle for which they wish to engage.”
“PEOPLE WITH GOOD HEART,MIND AND SOUL IN THIS WORLD WILL BE RECOGNIZED ONLY AFTER THEIR DEATH BY THIS STUPID WORLD...”
“What you constantly feed your conscious mind with during the day,your subconscious mind will further expantiate during the night.”
“Life's irony;Some humans,organizations & countries are surprised why they have not made unusual successes,it's because they have not dreamt unusual dreams.”
“Never mind to know the kind of thought dominating the mind of a person,for it will surely exhibit itself in the future.”
“Marketing IS Sharing the Value of Your Product or Service. Marketing IS NOT pushing your products or services on people that don't want them or have no interest in them.”
“Building a Successful Business is Not Easy, But Never Let Quitting Be an Option. Too Many Business Owners Quit When Times Get Hard Not Knowing that Their Breakthrough was Right Around the Corner.”
“Wise people are humble people,for they desire to know more,but foolish people are proud people,for they are satisfied with what they already know.”
“Some lives are as white as a piece of paper from birth to decease,
others are the brilliant colorful pictures.”
“Positive Power can inspire; Negative Power can perspire. Which power are you on?-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“Show Your Customers that You Appreciate Them by Making Them Feel Special. Give Them Bonuses, Coupons, or Recognize Them in Some Special Way. It's Easy, But Powerful!”
“Right inside the mind of man exist another universe,very few know exist.”
“My Penis”
“Life & Death are beyond our control. We can’t control where, how, or when we are born & we can’t control where, how, or when we may die. Then why Worry about it. -RVM ‬”
“Criticize the rich & the riches you so desire may elude you.”
“If my beliefs be false,then let my dreams never see the light.”
“For everything worth achieving, there is an equal sacrifice.”
“Life is too short to question, but so is the future and past. Honestly, the present is what matters most of all. Be true in your present, and the past/future will become more easily understandable.”
“Trust to Transform. LET GO…like a Caterpillar that eventually turns into a beautiful Butterfly.-RVM”
“A great destiny awaits the perpetual dreamer.”
“Wealth is in the house for he whose mind is under control.”
“A blessing not shared becomes poison in the life of its owner”
“The minutes will Tick, the days will Pass, the Journey is Ours, Smile while it Lasts.-RVM #Inspiration #stayinspired”
“You can tell more about a person by who he's contemptuous towards than who he treats with reverence”
“Some people are ignorant of self-chosen.
Some are trapped and struggled in their own cells.
Some are born great.”
“Don't worry about the outcome becoming worse, what if it's only the beginning.”
“Be grateful for your failures. They help correct your future mistakes.”
“Determination is not to be taken for granted; it is an impetus to reach your goal without given up.”
“Far too often, we want God to change our circumstances rather than God to change us. This should not be so!”
“Don't just Hurry, don't just Haste. Don't just Worry, don't just Waste. Life is a Treasure, Enjoy the Pleasure.-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“Even if riches are littering the ground,the poverty conscious minds can never perceive them.”
“The pen held by a discerning mind is mightier than the swords held by a thousand undiscerning minds.”
“Faith is accepting that you don't know, and trusting that God does.”
“A great person is not one that runs a great company,but one that has ordinary belief in him or herself.”
“While there are times I sway to the left, and to the right. I can be all things to all people. However I always return to the center, where I can only be me, to the one and only Him, my Lord, Savior, Jesus Christ.”
“Have you ever seen a pregnant woman that delivers without pains & discomforts,which shows that great dreams can only birth through trials & tribulations.”
“Fear can never buy you freedom from poverty,but only faith can.”
“Too Many Business Owners are Fearful of Objections and Instantly Get Defensive Handling Objections. When You Learn that Objections are Simply Questions in Disguise from an Interested Buyer, You will Grow to Love Them.”
“Shit happens, only you can decide how bad it smells”
“Defeat is always shy to challenge the folks with the faith garments.”
““Now Or Never”.... “Deep In Me I Really Now With Too Many Falls I Will Flow”...“I Will Rise Up Again & Fall-Down No More”.. “Never Ever Stop I Will Never Ever Give Up”.”
“All it takes is a vision and a bit of ambition”
““Life Taught Me Will”... “Life Taught Me To Keep a Distance From My Enemy” & “Maintain The Speed Of My emotion at a Reasonable Limit with Friends”... “Life Taught Me Will”... “Life’s Teaching Me What Is Right & What Is Wrong Indeed”.”
“When you have love, trust and faith then God will keep you safe.”
“Another fresh new year is here . . .
Another year to live!
To banish worry, doubt, and fear,
To love and laugh and give!
This bright new year is given me
To live each day with zest . . .
To daily grow and try to be
My highest and my best!
I have the opportunity
Once more to right some wrongs,
To pray for peace, to plant a tree,
And sing more joyful songs!”
“The abundant life does not come to those who have had a lot of obstacles
removed from their path by others. It develops from within and is rooted in
strong mental and moral fiber.”
“Whenever am down, i put my earphones on, and i listen to cool raps. It seems to inspire me to do better..”
“Free your Mind from the Clutter of Failure, Fear, and Doubt. Make Room for Achievement, Perseverance, and Success!”
“all they care about is themself... its all about
them i guess... its all about those selfish assholes who
dont care if somebody is going through a hard ass time,
all they care about is how theyre doing and they couldnt
give less of a fuck about what happens to this kid that just
scraps by life where nobody fucking cares to ask him if he
needs a hand or if he would need any help. fuck this planet
we live on... i just want my own place.”
“If you don't dream, you don't really sleep.”
“don't accept no from people who can't say yes”
“DON'T TRY TO ATTRACT PEOPLE TOWARDS YOU THROUGH GOD. BUT, TRY TO ATTRACT PEOPLE TOWARDS GOD THROUGH YOU...”
“From a springboard of thanatos (death wish), leap in to a sky of uncertainties and touch the star of glory or merge into the dust of peace.”
“Other people's creativity should be like a dash of cologne, it should get your attention, but not consume you. Your life's purpose will ultimately originate from your own inspiration.”
“Determination: the kindling that fuels the fire of life.”
“Nature cannot be tamed; that's why they call it the wild.”
“God's Spirit moves so that His people will move! Like a tree being blown by the wind, we need the Wind of the Holy Spirit to blow in our branches and move us, stir us, and change us!”
“Educational certificates are like Ornaments or Cosmetic products.”
“Sometimes until you hold life at the jugular,life may not yield to your heart desires.”
“A problem-free life does not exist. If your life has no problems, you are not truly alive, and that’s a Big problem!-RVM #Inspiration #stayinspired”
“I thought I was Spider Man!”
“Happiness is a shadow. If you chase it, it moves further away. But if you turn to make others happy, it will follow you. Make others Happy and be Happy.-RVM #Inspiration #stayinspired”
“I'm the author and writer of the distinctive motivational book "Wisdom to Wealth." I have an abundance of quotes, literally over a thousand. You have my permission to use any of my quotes on your website, please visit www.wisdomtowealth.com.au and www.facebook.com/wisdomtowealth
www.amazon.com/Wisdom-Wealth-Real-Secrets-Success/dp/0646931326
Many thanks,
Kelvin”
“America’s princely class perpetuates itself in many ways, including setting it up so that 0.1% of the general population can join annually and 0.1% have to leave over time. This makes most of the 99.9% who are 'eligible' but will never 'qualify' content that it’s a level playing field… but it’s not.”
“Great men must conquer their thoughts in order to become masters of their actions.”
“First, know where you want to go. Then, go where you want to go. You are your own pilot and you can choose your Destination. -RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“Envy & desire boldness,for inside it is great wealth.”
“Man's principal assignment in this universe is neither marriage ,nor to birth kids,but to marry & birth dreams.”
“If you choose to bury Hope, lose not the spade.”
“Q: Why can’t our arms be wings?
A: Who says they aren’t already?”
“People say , to do something you need to become something but I believe to become something you need to do something....!”
“MY PREVIOUS JOB is my ultimate dream, My PRESENT JOB is the absolute one.”
“A friend might well be reckoned the masterpiece of nature.”
“Life without Freedom can't go far…it's like a Brake that stops a car!-RVM #Inspiration #stayinspired”
“It's just that some people are rounder pegs than others”
“Is it who you surround yourself with or is it just the luck of the draw?”
“No one alive has all the pieces and even if they did they wouldn’t be able to put the puzzle together… but there’s nothing wrong with trying.”
“Mother Nature’s full of wondrous things and cruel tricks.”
“Don't let Hatred change you or ruin your day because Hatred knows no Love, don't try to talk to it or reconcile with it,
but pour out your Love on it and cripple it, then move on!!!”
“Life is as easy as a tree coming out of a seed...but if you have lived it , you would know what you have endured.”
“To have God is to have Eternal life. To be a child of God is a great blessing and only those who do what Jesus says can consider them self as children of God.The bible is our map for this cruel world. God bLess!”
“Adversity is the mother of opportunity & success.”
“If the price is too much, pay for your worth."”
“Life with money. ‪Okay!‬
Life for money. Sad!”
“When you dream, dream big. Believe in your dreams, and surround yourself with those who are most capable in helping you realize your dreams.”
“Big is the language of the person whose mind is under control.”
“Declaring your dreams before manifestation is akin to sowing a seed ,with the full expectation that it will germinate & harvest some day.”
“The lamp loses its value unless its lightened. You decide, which would you choose to become?”
“Your life is a reflection… you don't get what you WANT, you get what you ARE. You gotta BE it to SEE it.”
“The purpose of life is to enjoy it on its extreme and to make a difference!”
“During inspiration, you lose some quotes and they are gone for life. :) You didnt let it LIVE :(..”
“During inspiration, you lose some quotes and they are gone for life. :) You didnt let it LIVE :(..”
“Forgiveness is the BEST part of our LIFE!”
“Who knows.... What faith has in store!”
“Look around! People have faces with no smiles, as if they are carrying heavy baggage. Stop them! Give them a SMILE and see them Light up.-RVM #Inspiration #stayinspired”
“one can't understand one's problems, because no one faces same problems in life...!”
“I learned only one thing in love that do not love anyone deeply because there is no one to take care of you except yourself.”
“Once is a Mistake But Twice is not a Mistake!”
“Money is a computer and you are operator of it. Protect your pc from people by setting password, they might destroy your computer.”
“In the battle of the sexes my wife and I have a truce…
no armistice, or treaty, just a long held truce, 33 years and counting”
“Without darkness, there could be no light.”
“ It's all or nothing, because everything else is stuck in limbo.”
“Being kind all the time is a weakness in being cruel; being cruel all the time is being weak in all kind!”
“The value of a photograph increases with time, until a point where it becomes priceless”
“If our accomplishments are not accompanied with enough active beliefs,it will be called mediocre.”
“Birds fly in the sky without the fear of fall. We too must have the Courage to take Risks and grow tall.-RVM #Inspiration #stayinspired”
“Don't settle for anything less than what your absolute best can deliver!”
“You don't know me, you see. The real me hides from the evil you. I'm the real me inside of me, looking at the evil outside of you. This me you see, is living this new life that never knew me, so how do you think you know me. The real me will only be revealed to you, when you disarm all your evils toward me.”
“Be Safe, Strong, Happy & Healthy”
“Jockeying for position has a lot more to do with life than with horses”
“If you’re feeling empty, it’s because you refuse to fill in your own space.”
“In the pursuit of acquiring Treasures, we lose the ONE treasure that we truly possess—Life. Let us not lose Life in the wild pursuit of other things.-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“I believe in the dignity of labor, whether with head or hand; that the world owes no man a living but that it owes every man an opportunity to make a living.”
“Double Thinking; The power to be able to solve your life's problems is by learning to think inside your thought world.”
“There must be three major things are most valuable in our life: the money, the house and the cars.”
“The truth of God must be announced before the arrival of your opinions. If not, your opinions are nothing more than your false perception of the truth trying to make a grand entrance.”
“If your feeling lonely, fill in your space with God Almighty, awareness of self, fruitful people to multiply, and awe-inspiring children to reflect the child within self.”
“Have a Blast; Life won’t last! Make the Best of the Journey before it is over!	-RVM”
“Your Actions Well Determine Whether You Lose or Gain”
“I don't believe in second chances, just let me go to a better place”
“There's always a way - if you're committed.”
“In the journey of life, we pass pleasures & pain. There will be sunshine and rain; there will be loss and gain. But we must learn to smile again and again.-RVM”
“Something juicy will definitely emanate from a hard life,but with patience.”
“There is no right or wrong in our view of the world. But, if my view causes me emotional pain, then I need to find a way to not feel pain. In my experience, the only way not to feel the emotional pain is to view the situation from a different perspective and to take action to change how you feel.”
“You got to put the bad things in the past, and hope for the best in the future.”
“Enjoy the Bliss of just Being…Without being dependent on anything!-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“We don't know who we really are until we know how we can be”
“It is what it ain't!”
“My god knows no flag nor country, supports no political party nor ideology. My god knows no distinction between nations, religions, race, gender, sexual preference, or economic status. My god is neither vengeful nor jealous. My god is caring, merciful, and forgiving. My god is a god of love and of peace. My god is the way, the rhythm, the harmony of all that exists. To know my god is to respect and to love the diversity and yet the divinity of all creation.”
“You are like a tree, you always grow, and sometimes your favorite branches break away but you will keep growing new ones until you fall forever.”
“"How to get rich in one simple step" 1.Change your idea of wealth”
“Those who savour, enjoy more flavour.”
“Be Brave enough if you enter in a Battle-Field.”
“"How to get rich in one simple step" 1.Change your idea of wealth”
“Better being a drop in the ocean than not in the ocean at all.”
“Better being a drop in the ocean than not in the ocean at all.”
“To find your greatest opponent, seek out a mirror.”
“Don't try to turn 'what was', into 'what is', if it never 'will be'.”
“Ya gotta live a little to learn a little”
“You deserve the best not the better.”
“It's not about a half empty or half full cup. What matters is what's in your cup, and how you choose to fill it.”
“"Be wise and firm with the devil, for darkness, with time, shall be doomed, and your star will rise and shine"
- Dr.Mohammed Faig Abad Alrazak”
“In the mansion/mind of the believer,there is no room for impossibility.”
“Sitting here rearranging the stars to bear resemblance to her face, but there's nothing quite as beautiful as the original.”
“Life's lifting;Just the way a stranded commuter sometimes needs assistance from a benevolent motorist,so also in life one needs a benevolent benefactor to assist one in one's success journey.”
“The burden of change lies on those who are knowledgeable”
“Never accompany your dreams to those people who treat you less value.”
“Whenever you hear or think the word "impossible", keep in mind that affixes exist first before prefixes, therefore, the word "possible" comes first.”
“Neither the past nor the future matter. Only does this present moment. Each day is an opportunity to do something amazing. Let nothing hold you back. Give everything of yourself into everything you do. Never accept failure. Failure is not real. There are only moments from which lessons are learned. Better yourself everyday. Do what makes you happy. Become your own inspiration.”
““If you think, you'll get to know it. But if you do, you'll get to feel it.””
“PEACE is the foundation of Happiness—for where there is Anxiety, Tension, and Turmoil, Joy cannot exist.-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“This world can be an ugly place, but sometimes it's that ugliness, that reminds us how beautiful our existence is.”
“Love like a shadow flies when substance love pursues;
Pursuing that that flies, and flying what pursues.”
“Underrate man at your own peril,for man has the capacity to always perform the impossible.”
“Always be proud of your humble achievements in your humble world,in this world where the proud underrate you with pride.”
“It's impossible for me to be a Hater. I'm the best person that ever happened to me.”
“The Sun challenges us to Shine, the Clouds remind us to Move, the Birds tell us we too can Fly and the Sky tells us that there is no limit to our Dreams and Goals. -RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“Life's Irony; The fastest way of becoming rich is to begin small.”
“Writing your goals & dreams in the hearts of men is far greater & potent than writing them in your private diary.”
“Some escape to LIVE. Some LIVE to escape.- RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“One individual may die for an idea; but that idea will, after his death, incarnate itself in a thousand lives. That is how the wheel of evolution moves on and the ideas and dreams of one nation are bequeathed to the next’”
“More. Our relationship with God should make us MORE Understanding with others, MORE forgiving, MORE patient, MORE smiling. We call it, 'Being Christian.' ‪”
“Shine. Don't let imperfections stop you from shining.
All stars are created to shine regardless of their sizes and distance. Never feel small or imperfect. Just shine.”
“Friends. Treat everyone with equality, but carefully choose your friends. They shape our minds and forge our hearts. Even the hardest steel gets rotted in the band of a rusty iron.”
“Soak your mind with sensible information. Stay away from soap operas, celebrity, political bad news. What we WATCH, what we LISTEN to, what we SPEAK of, WE BECOME.”
“Soak your mind with sensible information. Stay away from soap operas, celebrity, political bad news. What we WATCH, what we LISTEN to, what we SPEAK of, WE BECOME.”
“Age. Isn't it wonderful to think how blessed we are for all those years? Our age is the number of years God has sustained us in His love. Be proud to tell people how old your are, when asked smile emoticon --- Mine? 43 years of blessing.”
“Free. We are not free from bad experiences or mean people, but we are free on how to respond to those events and on how to treat people in spite of their treatment to us. This is the real power of FREEDOM. Happy Independence Day!”
“One of the best ways to inspire oneself is to aspire life of right-size desire and relentlessly perspire to douse all negative thoughts’ fire of networking liar and ensure nothing conspire to make others’ tire to him admire.”
“Wishing evil upon our enemies will not harm them. It will only harm the ill-wisher. It's like putting cyanide in your milk tea, drink it, and wishing other people to die. That's the reason why Jesus said, "bless your enemy, bless and do not curse them." ‪”
“Wise. To be knowledgeable means having more information in our head, to be WISE means CHOOSING to do what is good. That's why not all knowledgeable people are wise. It's only those who CHOOSE to do what is good according to the will of God.”
“Inspire. Don't be afraid to speak your mind sensibly. If you're wrong, so what, champions don't need to be perfect. If you're right, who knows you're saving a life out there.”
“Life is only perfect in Dreams and in Death.”
“My former high school teacher once said: "John's brain is a size of a peanut." Now, before I go to the stage to talk to teachers, I would buy some peanuts and eat them. Then, I would tell my audience: "Never prophesy for the students. Reserve the foretelling to God. He alone holds the future of these kids. You never can tell."”
“Organ. My Italian friend once told me: " The quality of our skin, especially on our face, reveals the internal state of our internal organs." I learned too that making our expressions more cheerful improves the quality of our internal organs... and our spirit.”
“What is a Father's Day? It's the day when a father realizes that the greatest and the most important achievement in the world is his family. Happy Father's Day to my fellow dads!”
“Show up for your life, because if you don't no one else will.”
“Body. Love your body whatever the weighing scale is telling you. It has a feeling on its own, it produces more stress hormones once it feels it's unwanted; and it releases more healing hormones when it feels loved.”
“Failures. Sometimes, failures give us the chance to quit the things we're not supposed to be doing, and do the thing God has designed for us to do. Listen to your heart and be honest with yourself. Feel it.”
“Parents. At the end of the day the world will judge the builder by the strenght and beauty of his structures; the leader by the culture of his tribe; and the parents by the manner their children behave. We call this 'command responsibility.'”
“It seems to me that the world is more filled with populated conversations then populated works.”
“Great is the person that can conceptualize a thing from fantasy stage unto reality.”
“Depression. Even that, don't fear it. Welcome it, lick it, swim in it. It's a state of incuabation where the stongest and the most beautiful of human species emerge from.”
“Impossibility does not exist in this possible world.”
“Everyone can't be up at once & all can't be down at once,some up & some down,that's natures perfect job.”
“No one can survive in this life without partnership,for man to survive daily he has to partner with the atmosphere to give out carbondioxide & receive oxygen.”
“Human life can be liken to that of a flower, its beautiful when it blooms, though yours may delay but when it blooms,it will be the rarest and the most beautiful of all.”
“Not all the beautiful things are seen, sometimes, they are felt.”
“Humility pays”
“Opposition is the lubricant that oils the vision of the great.”
“For until you have passed through extreme poverty,you will never fully understand the meaning of life”
“The beliefs we exhibit & parade up & down can never be gotten in any Ivy college.”
“Don't just follow the Herd. Be like a Bird. Open your wings and Fly high in the Sky!-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“We have become politically fat and lazy, and find it is easier to check a box in favor of a political mouthpiece to take care of things for us than it is to stand up for what is right and to take action individually.”
“The US Congress has spent the past few years throwing temper tantrums, like school children on the playground, when they don't get their party-line way.”
“The lines that once separated the 3 branches of Government have been blurred and even spraypainted over by corruption, personal and political agendas, and class-warfare.”
“Don't get jealous, instead get vicarious.”
“Sadly, I believe that there are too many Americans who are now content to be the proverbial rats pushing the button to get there government handout food pellet.”
“Our beliefs is the foundation upon which our life's achievements are built.”
“Life has got no inheritance for the cowardly being.”
“A Position is not for the Elected Many
But it is for the Selected Few.”
“A Position is not for the Elected Many
But it is for the Selected Few.”
“Love: Pass It on, you will be Amazed at what you get back!”
“life starts from pain. Because, without rainbow there is no rain.”
“Trust none, be wise and just, a deed is done”
“To be free, is just to be”
“With Justice we shall rise”
“Feeling free, in your mind heaven you will see”
“You can have whatever you so desire as long as you keep choosing it even if it doesn't choose you back, eventually something clicks.”
“A girl age 23, 10 years younger than me, came to me looking up at my spouse thinking love has all the answers and said, "If I could have half of what you have I would be good." Shocked because I said the same thing before, I replied, "You already do have it and more you just don't know it yet. It is about what is in store as you continue to build your life and your dreams."”
“Man is nothing without the leverage called faith.”
“Never be in haste to believe you have a friend,nor brother,nor sister,but wait until problem comes.”
“walk, not backwards in doubt, but ahead in opportunity”
“walk, not backwards in doubt, but ahead in opportunity”
“Those who always think of their aches can never do what it takes! -RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“We must have more than enough reasons for our goals to be escorted to the land of reality.”
“Motivate others with what motivates you.”
“No matter how difficult life is, never give up. Be happy and keep your head up with joy and smiles. One day your time will come.”
“My heart knows me better than I know myself. So, I'm going to let it do all of the talking.”
“A friend hears the words you say; a true friend reads the feelings in between the words.”
“Language is not only the vehicle of thought, it is a great and efficient instrument in thinking.”
“It doesn't cost to be happy. And I'm glad because I'm broke.”
“Life is Won when you learn to run in the Sun and have Fun before Life is done.-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“A song is a bookmark in time.”
“Our principles are the springs of our actions. Our actions, the springs of our happiness or misery. Too much care, therefore, cannot be taken in forming our principles.”
“The greatest loyalty is loyalty to yourself. Never betray your mind; and your thoughts and actions shall always balance.”
“If you want to do something make sure you do it well or don't do it at all”
“I have never seen a place where dreams can easily be made possible as this life.”
“Life's Irony;Out of the blues cometh mind boggling & life changing ideas.”
“If your dream can challenge others to dream,then you should be called the Chief dreamer.”
“What so ever you desire in life is abundant in the subconscious realm,for it can fall like rain without end.”
“It takes financial intelligence to overcome poverty & it takes poverty to appreciate wealth.”
“Don't wait for the rain to stop. Wait for the sun to come out and join the rain in making a rainbow.”
“Others Experiences Makes You Experienced”
“Coming to a blue ocean near you”
“Coming to an ocean near you”
“Experiment with preparing your mind in the morning and increasing your miracle morning preparation. It’s impossible not to improve with morning preparation!”
“Take a leap of faith right now and know that you can live the life of your dreams by making a positive decision.”
“Life are full of memories, capture them”
“It may be a Mountain or a Tree, a River or a Bee . . . learn to enjoy the little things in Life.-RVM #Inspiration #stayinspired”
“Great is the person who can stand alone with his beliefs,even if the whole world is against it.”
“For life, marriages & businesses to succeed, passion must rule.”
“If you can't change yourself with the situation than Change the situation.”
“I do what i love to do and I love what i do!!
I don't work to please others.”
“If You Dare To Dream Big, Than Follow Your Dream And Never Give Up.”
“We bridge the music industry together with fans who have terminal diseases to help change their daily perspective on life through the healing power of music.”
“If you don't like the Fruits you are growing, then change the Seeds you are sowing.-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“When we let go of judging others, we create a space in our hearts where we could let everything in this universe exist within us.”
“Always seeking to remain in the network of two types of people only -Either inspirer or who is open to be inspired. But never mere followers or higher fliers.”
“Until you venture out,or else forget about the word success.”
“It takes faith to keep believing & attempting even when there is no visible sign of progress.”
“In any given circumstance,the will pathfinds the way.”
“Blessed are those not gifted in the art of small thinking.”
“The key to life is held within your own hands.”
“The key to life is held within your own hands.”
“Do what YOU want to do because if you don’t, you are nothing but your own slave.-RVM #Inspiration #stayinspired”
“I don't want to come to the end of my life, only to realize I've barely lived it.”
“Days are like trains, they will just zoom by. You can be zapped seeing them pass or you can jump on to one of them and enjoy the Journey.-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎stayinspired‬”
“Humor is the one great counter to trouble, as well as its child.”
“Rainy days are here to influence people. Passive ones are reminded of a well-deserved rest. Active ones take it as a gesture of inspiration to move forward despite the weather.”
“Only the best thoughts is good enough to carry you throughout today's journey.”
“India is an Ocean of talents, but they need an opportunity to discover them selves.”
“Great challenges are what makes great minds”
“No problem can be solved from the same level of consciousness that caused it......”
“I don't live for the future; I live for the moment because time can change anything.”
“Its only the fool that sits permanently on today,but the wise plan for tomorrow.”
“"Karma has fixed menu,No A-la carté is served.”
“A thought that has got the power of educating, engaging, empowering, enriching and enlightening en masse is only endowed with a lot of motivating and inspiring energy to touch base with hearts.”
“If you don't leave, you don't live.”
“When you come near to me, i cant see anything but you ...just like the moons and the stars disappear, when the sun shines bright.”
“In life nothing easily gkes right, so if something is going right make sure that it is really going right.”
“Problems are everywhere, so are Solutions. Unfortunately, we see more of the Problems than the Solutions.-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎Stayinspired‬”
“When people disagree with your big dreams enlarge it further.”
“With wealth comes opportunity, but with opportunity comes a barren mind.”
“The best way to know a man is to know his friends and enemies first.”
“The only way to understand a painting is to know the painter himself.”
“The only people to remember in your life are the ones who let you remember.”
“The only thing you can draw inspiration from is something you love.”
“The first step to discovery is the last step to failure.”
“If something bad js happening....then surely something good is awaiting !”
“The best careers advice to give to the young is 'Find out what you like doing best and get someone to pay you for doing it.'”
“Your first step may create a new path.”
“What matters is not how many miles you run… What matters is whether you are having Fun!-RVM”
“The successful people in this world spends twice as much time reflecting on their successes than unsuccessful people.”
“I’ll take an absent employee over an absent-minded employee any day of the week.”
“Change your character and your character will change you”
“The Attitude of Gratitude can raise your Altitude. Being Thankful is a magical way to reach the Top.-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎Stayinspired‬”
“Today is a powerful being because it will eventually know the secrets of all humans.”
“Who's belief will shape today the most,mine or someone else?”
“People Need Attention
But seriously "I want satisfaction In My Life"”
“A rainbow in the sky or a bird that can fly often create Joy that money can't buy!-RVM #Inspiration #Stayinspired”
“Great people talk about what they call "Steps to Success", but that's actually a conclusion they came to after trying almost every thing and failing in most of them.
So sharp your enthusiasm one more time and keep going.”
“The size of one is only matter, What really matters is the size of one's soul.”
“A purely dedicated person has the passion to overcome a certain aims of challenge in a desprate fashion”
“Letting go is sometimes better than hanging on because inner peace is more important than being stubborn.”
“I am not a high achiever, I'm a try-achiever.”
“You must be almost a complete puzzle before you find your soulmate because that person is going to be the one piece missing that makes you whole.”
“Some people live such boring lives; it’s Black & White, so dead! I choose to color my life with Fun, some Blue, some Green, some Red.-RVM ‪”
“If dreaming were easy, all beggars will have dream mansions.”
“All those persecuted by sunshine should be patient,because the moonlight will soon console them.”
“Only the people you make relevant ever are.”
“Self introspection is the starting point for any change. If you believe what you are doing is the best then there is no change. Challenge yourselves daily and you will initiate the change"”
“If you want to live different, stay away from insanity”
“Your response to your ability is a factor in determining your capability to handle responsibility.”
“If people only knew how hard I work to gain my mastery, it wouldn't seem so
wonderful at all.”
“It is good to be on the run rather than to stay and wait for someone who won't come.”
“No person was born poor,but most of us think poorly of ourselves that's why we remain poor.”
“Rather than compare yourself with others,be motivated by their successes.”
“Until we dare to dare,we cannot determine from the sidelines how formidable our life ventures can become.”
“To depend on your ideas for your survival is to think richly of yourself.”
“The flower never lies, the beauty is her truth”
“All rise to freedom and true justice, as the tree leaves does to the sun”
“Prosthetists + Amputees = LifeLong Relationships”
“We as like the rain, dance with the wind until the end”
“Courage shall be, when fear not and wise to be”
“We live the day, we live the night, but heaven does select whom to delight”
“When love lives in the far deeps of hearts, then for eternity to remain”
“The time and we, as the waves hug the sea”
“The greatest discovery one can find in life is to be able to locate the opportunity that can better one's life's adventure.”
“There are many species of fruits/talents that can be harvested in the venture called life,but the laborers/entrepreneurs are few.”
“Today is a business venture & only those that believe in her will reap bountiful dividends from her.”
“Poverty has no other option than to give way for the person with the willpower to become rich.”
“Let no day pass by without you having absolute belief in it,because one day your beliefs will trap the success you desire.”
“Stepping into a new day is akin to stepping into an unknown world,for there will be many new things to learn.”
“If we can utilize half the time spent searching for jobs to search for ideas,then the world will be a far more valuable place for all.”
“Only those that know how to utilize the tool called imagination with dexterity are the one's that can conquer the universe.”
“To depend on another for your survival,is to think poorly of yourself.”
“When running towards the shining horizon, don't look back at the dawning night.”
“Prosthetists + Amputees = LifeLong Relationships”
“Vive por familia, por familia es vida!”
“Real activism is not top down stating the obvious, but down up trying to change the obvious”
“Peace. An elusive emotion most of us strive to achieve. Seek your peace, and don't stop when you get to happiness. Continue your journey into that deeper state of inner-peace.”
“If we wish for the same thing in one hundred different ways 1 must come true”
“Let's endeavor to help ourselves today for good,& tomorrow we may meet again for the better.”
“Rejoice in the success of another,for in doing so you are indirectly inviting yours.”
“There is absolute power in the spoken or written word,so utilize it to better your life.”
“Atimes providence gives man a dream far bigger than him,because he knows that his faith shall see him through.”
“Those who fall the deepest are the ones who reach the longer in life.”
“There is no sin in being poor,but to be poor without direction is a big sin.”
“Always treat your servant with dignity,because tomorrow your servant may become the new master.”
“Just like Abraham Lincoln,keep attempting to score at success goal post,never give up until success beckons.”
“No country is ever poor,but some may appear poor because,the citizens think poorly about their country.”
“If the resources that flows into the universe can be compared with the riches of the rich,then we are only picking the crumbs from the masters table.”
“Rather than compare yourself with another,compare yourself with your inner being,the one that can do the impossible.”
“"If I ever hurt you, put it on my tab. I'll pay you when I die.”
“Endeavor to make a statement in this life,but with your beliefs.”
“Ignorance is a ticking time-bomb wrapped in momentary bliss.”
“DEPENDING upon someone is the biggest SLAVERY....!”
“Rumors are meant to break you, confidence keeps you together”
“Rumors are meant to break you, confidence keeps you together”
“The six requisites of success are: Vision; Drive; Focus; Ability; Support; Opportunity”
“If it ain't burning it ain't working”
“No dream is too big for belief to accomplish.”
“Your belief is the gateway to your success avenue.”
“If I die with nothing but my heart to give, I pray that my love will forever live.”
“If you have a reason to fail,then failure will continually be your partner,but to be a success disregard every reason to fail.”
“Always involve passion in your daily activities,because passion delivers.”
“We can't afford to leave success to fate,but we got to grab it with belief & passion.”
“Live like you are blind, and then you will see.”
“Life is a puzzle where sometimes all the pieces don't fit but with time you begin to see the entire picture.”
“Whatever you think about and talk about, eventually comes about.”
“It is only fools & cowards that waits until tomorrow,but the wise & bold begin today.”
“Don't lead by telling, guide by asking”
“Teach as you learn”
“Fruit doesn't grow at the bottom of the tree trunk. You have to go out and get it.”
“Paint that dream in the most artistic manner you can ever imagine,because after this place your dreams won't be needed any more.”
“Unite to rise.”
“Don't question what life brings to you, go with the flow and let the mother nature carve the path.”
“When providence wants to change a man's destiny,it first alters his mind set.”
“Never endeavor to seek people's favorable opinion before you embark on the journey towards your destiny,because if you do ,you may never emmbark on that journey in this life.”
“Life is an adventure,in adventure we play games”
“Harder the life hits,the stronger i get”
“Life's irony;You can change your name,your ascent,your nationality & even your skin color,but you can never change your background.”
“Stop preaching lack as a doctrine,for the universe is filled with over abundance of whatsoever you can fantasize about.”
“Most humans are living life in error,because our lives are all about me,myself & I.”
“To live a super efficient life,concern yourself not about yesterday,nor tomorrow,but only blessed today.”
“If only I had spent my time spending my money rather than just making it, I would have died a happier man. -RVM”
“There’s ordinary and there’s extraordinary. What can you do a little bit extra? If you implement an extraordinary experience for your consumers, your revenue will explode!”
“Adversaries inspire the great.”
“Adversaries love the great,but in an opposing manner.”
“It is impossible to read the daily press without being diverted from reality. You are full of enthusiasm for the eternal verities -- life is worth living, and then out of sinful curiosity you open a newspaper. You are disillusioned and wrecked.”
“Wherever you see the great,expect to see many adversaries.”
“A man who was completely innocent, offered himself as a sacrifice for the good of others, including his enemies, and became the ransom of the world. It was a perfect act.”
“The power to easily let your kids go & find their own marital successes is by desisting from having possessive love over them I.e from day one program your mind that they will live with you for two or three decades atmost.”
“Woody has always been a reference point for me, as well a source of inspiration along the way. I was brought up around his music at a pretty early age, ... The reference in the song relates more to the way my own children have become fans, I guess (laughs). If there was no Highway 61, we may not have had Bob Dylan or Leadbelly .”
“Those who believe they can choose their own battles only demonstrate cowardice... Battles are situations thrust upon us. Affording one honor in involvement, bravery in effort, and heroism in victory.”
“IMESHO (In My Ever So Humble Opinion:) women use food and sex as weapons, or at least for leverage in our negotiations… but that’s okay, it’s a lot better than guns and knives!”
“Watch kids on the playground and you’ll see weak kids harassed by strong kids and a few strong kids protecting the weak… it’s no different than adults and nations.”
“Try doing more than you think you can, and you will accomplish more than you ever thought you could.”
“The perfect challenge is one which is just a bit above, in terms of difficulty, to what you are actually capable of undertaking. For it is this level of challenge which encourages you to go beyond your current stage of development.”
“Never fear that dreams may soon finish,for the dream reserves existing in the universe are absolutely inexhaustible,just like the air we breathe.”
“The right time to buy a needful item is when you don't need it,for the day you will need that item will surely come like a thief in the night.”
“The only true challenge in doing anything is believing that you can.”
“The artist cannot paint without an idea, Your imagination needs insperation to get going.”
“It is not the complexity of God and our universe man struggles to comprehend, it is the simplicity our minds cannot seem to grasp.”
“Be kind...you may be someone’s hope.”
“One must learn to love, and go through a good deal of suffering to get to it... and the journey is always towards the other soul.”
“Necessity is the mother of invention, it is true, but its father is creativity, and knowledge is the midwife”
“Progress is not measured by a single step,but by a process of steps, each one driving you forward and closer to success”
“Music has power over movement, the mind has power over body, and our actions have power over our lives.”
“It's true....along with prayer, time does heal all wounds but there will still be scars left behind. It is in those scars that you have a constant reminder of the precious memories that were made and will forever be in your heart. ♥”
“Seek power through knowledge not popularity, search for truth not prosperity”
“The unconscious mind takes note of things the conscious mind has not seen”
“In your pursuit of a better future, don’t waste a perfectly beautiful today.”
“It will generally be found that men who are constantly lamenting their ill luck are only reaping the consequences of their own neglect, mismanagement, and improvidence, or want of application.”
“Always remember that problems contain values that have improvement
potential.”
“Believe; it can happen to you.”
“In your journey of discovery and change, it doesn’t matter how fast or slow you get there, just don’t stop.”
“If only I could take my own advice...
I would never need advice”
“Whatever surpasses the knowledge of man cannot be understood by man nor by the sciences of man, but rather through faith, the spiritual man.”
“Life has a beauty, a beauty that allows you to believe, to believe not in religion but just as importantly, yourself and the things you can achieve. Though sadly this beauty is one, most will fail to see. Thus why each who has, must show, show not to those with greed, but rather to those with need. For those who need, will be able to perceive what they actually see. As where those with greed want only the ability to deceive, to deceive those who failed to see, to believe, in what they could be.”
“Life is like a mesh, where you stand is a result of your previous choices, choose where you want to be in the future.”
“The obstacles you face are... mental barriers which can be broken by adopting a more positive approach.”
“Life has a beauty, a beauty that allows you to believe, to believe not in religion but just as importantly, yourself and the things you can achieve. Though sadly this beauty is one, most will fail to see. Thus why each who has, must show, show not to those with greed, but rather to those with need. For those who need, will be able to perceive what they actually see. As where those with greed want only the ability to deceive, to deceive those who failed to see, to believe, in what they could be.”
“Impossible doesn’t exist, it’s merely a placeholder used to fill the space of something that has yet to be discovered.”
“Drums are loud because they are empty.”
“Impossible doesn’t exist, it’s merely a placeholder used to fill the space of something that has yet to be discovered.”
“Never ever walk away from a negative person. Run!”
“Deeds and Talks are in balance, the more of one of them, the less of the other.”
“The opponents and I are really one. My strength and skills only half of the equation. The other half is theirs. An opponent is someone whose strength joined to yours creates a certain result.”
“There is one quality that one must possess to win, and that is definiteness of
purpose, the knowledge of what one wants, and a burning desire to possess it.”
“serves as a sort of inspirational character or a point of reference when thinking about topical issues. He had a willingness to take social injustice head-on and write about it.”
“Pain can be excruciating but sometimes it's the pain that reassures you that your still alive. You can get through this all and later you'll be reminiscing about it but you'll be satisfied because it taught you how to be strong, tall and proud.”
“Live desperate. Challenge your fears. Challenge your foes. Act like what you do matters. It does.”
“Never Ever under-estimate (person, task, ...)”
“Live desperate. Challenge your fears. Challenge your foes. Act like what you do matters. It does.”
“All successful people learn to navigate diverse personalities. So don't loose hopes after failure, try other ways and you'll reach there.”
“Until you are desperate enough to admit what you need, you’ll never find a way to attain the success that you want.”
“A team is a group of individuals that support each other.”
“Until you are desperate enough to admit what you need, you’ll never find a way to attain the success that you want.”
“Love yourself,always.”
“The words written in page upon page cannot prove love, or the existence of a higher power, nor can they turn the wheels that carry those books. It is the hand that builds the cart, knowing from experience that the wheel must be round that brings each precious page to its end. Diana G. Butler”
“In our own way, we are all super stars.”
“Nike's message, JUST DO IT, is an a message for, anything you want to do in life....JUST DO IT.”
“Day dreaming is like oxygen for your mind. If you can’t day dream, you’re slowly suffocating.”
“How far you go in life depends on your being tender with the young, compassionate with the aged, sympathetic with the striving and tolerant of the weak and strong. Because someday in your life you will have been all of these.”
“I believe with all my heart that civilization has produced nothing finer than a man or woman who thinks and practices true tolerance.”
“There is a Michael Jordan, in all of us.”
“I looked in the mirror and what did I see. The perfect hand writing of God written all over me.”
“Those who say to accomplish your dream is impossible, don't know the meaning of possible.”
“Stupid people are like fire, they'll burn anything down.”
“Trouble makers are like frogs any pond will do.”
“Whether your hopes are high or low, God does his things his own way..”
“Learn from yesterday, live for today, plant seeds for tomorrow - live a life worth living.”
“"Degree" are for "Parents" and not for the "Child". Think!”
“Tend your farm with patience & painstaking determination & don't envy the one whose harvest is today,for yours may be in a decades time.”
“There are some people who think being "fake" can earn them "happiness"!”
“Men with good intentions are being led astray by simply hearkening to the desires of their lusty flesh.”
“This life is a fertile place to grow ideas.”
“Whatever course you decide upon, there is always someone to tell you that you are wrong. There are always difficulties arising which tempt you to believe that your critics are right. To map out a course of action and follow it to an end requires courage.”
“There is nothing Lost or Wasted in Life”
“The worst thing one can do is not to try, to be aware of what one wants and not give in to it, to spend years in silent hurt wondering if something could have materialized - and never knowing”
“In every person who comes near you look for what is good and strong.”
“The Junior Blind Olympics provides an inspirational opportunity for blind and visually impaired children to challenge their abilities, surmount sight barriers and achieve their dreams.”
“Great soccer is inspiring, on the street and in the stadium, and Nike is in Berlin today to celebrate brilliant football. Nike soccer is about the joy of playing. Our products, our players and our global brand leadership reflect that.”
“Meditation can make an Ordinary Human Being to a Genius”
“God only is Real. The World UnReal. The Individual is None other than God. You Are God, If You Realise Your SELF”
“wow the energies are vibrating through me its exciting, beautiful, loving and brilliantly
♥ ♥ ♥ (¯`*•.¸❤ ♥ Namasté ♥ ❤¸.•*´¯)”
“Divine Life is a life of love, wisdom and light.”
“Make your flaw your strength.”
“Swami Sivananda
O Man! O ignorant man! O arrogant, impertinent man! You have wasted your life-time. Now at least spend your life of retirement usefully in Japa, Kirtan, meditation and selfless service.”
“today is a bright new day, the server ground frost is slowly melting under the sunshine thats creeping out to play, had brew now ready for any bad things that may comes my way”
“The greatest obstacles to Self-realisation are desire for property, desire for wealth and desire for name and fame. Desire is born of ignorance. The fundamental desire is the urge for mate. Destruction of desire is destruction of ignorance.”
“SEE is an acronym for (Seek opportunities) Enthusiastically Everyday.(SEE)”
“Strive, strive, strive. This is the sacred Mantra to success in everything.”
“Its a big sin to use the phrase "there is no money",for the Universe is filled with more than enough.”
“Situations will bow down in obeisance for the mind that has been mended to control situations.”
“Little acts make great actions.”
“Nothing is lost when the candle burns. No spiritual effort goes in vain.”
“Have sanity with the necessary rather than insanity with the unnecessary.”
“Make a firm resolve. BE earnest. Be vigilant. Be advancing. March forward! O heroic soldier.”
“Every second you still find yourself breathing must be filled with value,because it could be your very last.”
“Make discrimination-cum-non-attachment your sword to cut the tree of Samsara(the karmic cycle of birth and death)”
“The difference between the ordinary & the extra-ordinary is belief.”
“Try not to try and definitely you will be tried.
Attempt not to attempt and surely you will be tempted.”
“Cultivate discrimination between the Real and the unreal, and you will know whte hollowness of the pleasures of sense-objects.”
“If you can get over the thirst for carnal pleasures in life, you have almost conquered all your enemies.”
“Seek the Immortal, All-blissful Soul within. You will enjoy everlasting happiness and peace.”
“We maybe MORE but definitely we are NOT the MOST.
We maybe LESS but surely we are NOT the LEAST.”
“Come! Come! Practise Yoga. Meditate seriously. You will cross this ocean of darkness and ignorance and reach the Light and Life everlasting.”
“Defeat your Limits to Limit your Defeats.”
“We celebrate the Birthday of the Body. But, in reality, "We" are not the Body. We are the Soul, the Atman. Therefore, Celebrate every day, as We are Immortal.‪”
“O nectar's son, O child of Immortality! Sing the song of strength. Sing the song of triumph. March forward fearlessly and reach the goal of illumination.”
“Love and respect the Saints of every faith.”
“The highest patriotism is not a blind acceptance of official policy, but a love of one's country deep enough to call her to a higher plain”
“When you engage in systematic, purposeful action, using and stretching your
abilities to the maximum, you cannot help but feel positive and confident about
yourself.”
“Real education aims at controlling the mind, annihilating egoism, cultivating divine virtues, and attaining knowledge of the Self or Brahma-Jnana.”
“Without fine-tuning, you’re flat-lining!”
“Meditate on the desireless and fearless Brahman. You will become desireless and fearless.”
“Divine life is full, infinite, perfect and blissful. Therefore, lead the life divine.”
“If you want different results, you have to do things differently!”
“In whatever situation God places you, it is only for your betterment. Kindly do not be discouraged.”
“He is able who thinks he is able.”
“All that you are is the result of what you have thought. It is founded on your thoughts. It is made up of your thoughts.”
“I have never seen a life with problems that are so gigantic & numerous that dreams cannot surmount.”
“If the mind is controlled, it is then capable of great service. If it is not subdued, it creates endless pain and suffering.”
“Pursue your small dreams with dexterity & passion & soon the big dreams will meet you.”
“If you are a child of Earth, then every city is your home.”
“Do not hate the evil-hearted, the jealous and the selfish. It is they who promote your Moksha”
“The education of the present-day students is a bit too bookish. The students aim at getting the degrees more than the real education of useful practical knowledge. The students go through their college career rather aimlessly without a definite plan or purpose.”
“Some men see things as they are and ask why. Others dream things that never were and ask why not.”
“Introspect. Watch the mind. It will gradually grow calmer and calmer. You will be able to find your defects”
“If you are good, the whole world will be good for you.”
“Failure is simply the opportunity to begin again, this time more intelligently.”
“The more myths you create about how things are supposed to be, the harder your reality will feel when they are proven wrong.”
“The history of the pencil is of no importance. The ability to write is!”
“People spend a lifetime searching for happiness
Looking for peace.
They chase idle dreams, religions, even other people, hoping to fill the emptiness that plagues them.
The irony is the only place they ever needed to search was within.”
“All pain is either severe or slight, if slight, it is easily endured; if severe, it will
without doubt be brief.”
“Seeing without sight, feeling without touch, I found my world is how I view it from inside”
“The worst humanitarian crises that can befall a person is to live in ignorance without being aware.”
“I, on the crest of the world, over and above the eloquence of white puffy billows of naked sky”
“The goodness of our hearts will always overcome darkness”
“Be cheerful & be kind,never take life too seriously,for we are all temporary visitors on this terrain,whether rich or poor.”
“Of all my life I must have done something right to receive such a gift as you”
“listening to the calmness of the female voice over tanoy as the steam train comes in, the sky is magical of red, blue and white as a dark cloud creeps in bringing tear drops of rain, noise of sirens in the distance, feeling the coldness from the breeze across my face”
“A fool's paradise is a wise man's hell”
“Failure is only postponed success as long as courage ''coaches'' ambition. The habit of persistence is the habit of victory.”
“We did just enough to get the win. We need to be a little more inspired, and we weren't.”
“This remote and distant journey, brings a passage written on my spirit foreknown and I too search for its meaning”
“In any given circumstance,there is always a lone,still & uplifting voice hiding amidst the many drowning voices just waiting to be identified.”
“An angel passionately whispering my name as her voice sings in faultless harmony resting on my shoulders”
“Little did I know I was writing my own story, given a short journey of a novel well written and concluded”
“See all, experience all, as to pick up sand and feel every grain plummet from my fingers”
“I used to rely on a "car" to bring me places. Now I own a "vehicle" of inspiration, concentration, and information which drives my thoughts, being, and creative spirit.”
“When someone attaches unkindness to criticism, she's angry. Angry people need
to criticize as an outlet for their anger. That's why you must reject unkind
criticism. Unkind criticism is never part of a meaningful critique of you. Its
purpose is not to teach or to help, its purpose is to punish. "”
“The music of the earth, nights darkest heavens, and I beneath its stars, I see my life rich and full”
“This world is a business venture & only those that mean business reap bountifuly from it.”
“Whether others love you depends on many variables and often uncontrollable; but whether you can love yourself is not debatable, and that is the best gift you can give to yourself”
“Life is progressive. To live is to experience both positive & negative life events and use them to strengthen your situation. Surrendering is not an option because that is not the definition of life”
“Every blessed day,every human mission for the day should be,let another rise through me today.”
“Keep on hoping there is tomorrow, keep on waiting for the happiness to come”
“Remember even though the outside world might be raining, if you keep on smiling the sun will soon show its face and smile back at you.”
“All living souls welcome whatever they are ready to cope with; all else they ignore, or pronounce to be monstrous and wrong, or deny to be possible.”
“Don't waste your time trying to put me down; I won't lose an inch of my ground because you're the worst injustice, and I'm the opposite”
“EYE is an acronym for Expect Your Expectations.(EYE)”
“Distraction is an enemy; don't let it be an interference. Keep on marching with confidence and determination; you'll reach your destination before you realize it”
“I don't wanna die tomorrow giving a shit of what people think today.”
“The fishermen know that the sea is dangerous and the storm terrible, but they have never found these dangers sufficient reason for remaining ashore”
“That which has form will always break; we’ll just have to rebuild it as we remember it.”
“We are never more discontented with others than when we are discontented with ourselves.”
“Let's enjoy the show, laugh out loud at the funny parts. Cry at the sad parts and dream at the romantic parts. Tense at the daring parts. Scream at the scary parts and hate at the cruel parts. But don't forget, it's your movie so be the director and take charge.”
“Sometimes, we should feel low coz when we rise from the ASHES, we are STRONGER than ever.”
“LIFE is an acronym. What will yours be?”
“Constant RENOVATION is the key to SUCCESS and FAILURE.”
“To make your journey to your vision world easier,the vision must be crystal clear in your mind.”
“Life is like a bicycle built for two. Jesus is in front leading & we are behind Him pedaling.”
“I'm living my life the way I want it...living it with NO regrets. I'm not sorry for anything I've done, doing, or going to do; said, saying or going to say. Thats who I am and who I'm always going to be.”
“It is a clear gain to sacrifice pleasure in order to avoid pain.”
“Generosity is another quality which, like patience, letting go, nonjudging,
and
trust, provides a solid foundation for mindfulness practice.”
“Life is like a bicycle built for two. Jesus is in front leading & we are behind Him pedaling.”
“To regret is to discredit EVERY SINGLE THING that has happened prior to where you are standing right now”
“There is a candle in your heart, ready to be kindled. There is a void in your soul, ready to be filled. You feel it, don't you?”
“My goal in life is to fully master one thing; Myself.”
“Most humans will never go beyond the gates of success,because all they ever think about is how to secure their daily bread.”
“Art is created by the artist and defined by the viewer. The same goes for our character.”
“A good leader inspires people to have confidence in their leader. A great leader inspires people to have confidence in themselves.”
“In order to find stability in the world we must first find stability within ourselves.”
“Inspiration moves one from Pessimism to Optimism, from Doubt to Faith, from Despair to Hope, and from Darkness to Light!-RVM”
“Never change who you are for the satisfaction of acceptance.”
“Never will I degrade myself to prove I am worthy.”
“Fame never settles without a price to pay. Those that so wish upon a star at night, sell their soul to the devil and his might. Flashing lights become lightning and fast cars become a tragic ending. Oh where, oh where is the irony...it rests in your face like one, two, and three...”
“If you believe and are capable of receiving, it will come.”
“"Frustration is Big Motivation."
When you get frustrated, You get motivated double than that.”
“Do something nice, say something good, hear something great today!”
“Each of us know all there is to know about everything we want to know.”
“Look straight into your eyes, you will see a sinner or a winner.”
“Reality is how it is supposed to be for each their own.”
“There are many ways to seek wisdom.
BOOK --- is one of the major sources.”
“Money may mislead you,but having the right beliefs will show you the way.”
“Always be grateful to the one who stands by your side when you cry. He never asks a reason why, just standing by your side.”
“Only as high as I reach can I grow, only as far as I seek can I go, only as deep as I look can I see, only as much as I dream can I be.”
“Gratitude is the one who stands by your side silently when you cry than a thousand words of comfort he says.”
“We are all here to learn about ourselves and inspire others in our own unique way.”
“Be yourself, to free yourself!”
“Work for results.”
“Life's irony;While the poor are looking for money, the rich are looking for opportunities.”
“By tapping into and honoring your creativity, you will be happier, more energetic, balanced and whole.”
“There are Angels on the Battlefield but they are not dressed in white,They are in olive and khaki and often blood soaked by night.”
“Theories are always very thin and insubstantial, experience only is tangible.”
“A few observation and much reasoning lead to error; many observations and a little reasoning to truth.”
“It's made me want to fight more. What more inspiration do you need?”
“We used a chainsaw for the basic cuts and Bob Dylan was our inspiration. We tried to make all the contrast so it looks like a spruce tree dripped in snow.”
“Brock does so many things well on and off the court. In practices he teaches, he communicates and he inspires the other kids. He's going to be a great coach someday.”
“Being out in nature reminds me that everything is going to be okay.”
“Your Private Life Prepares You for Public Miracles!”
“You can only be your best for others when you are rested and whole for yourself.”
“Who you are today isn't who you were yesterday and who you will be tomorrow.”
“To truly open your heart is to remember who you truly are.”
“I'm game for any stunts that don't include fire, heights, or genuine, life-threatening danger."”
“When I examine myself and my methods of thought, I come to the conclusion
that the gift of fantasy has meant more to me than my talent for absorbing positive
knowledge.”
“The key to personal success is setting yourself apart. The key to financial success is creating value. Be yourself. Be of worth. Your day will come.”
“Let what you do speak for you.”
“Never give up so much control of yourself to another person, where you allow them to overtake your mind, emotions and actions, while causing you to become the very thing you despise. If you do, they win...”
“Sometimes the clearest view comes not from looking directly at the object but around it.”
“Youth is fantastic and aging is difficult but youthful doesn’t always mean useful and age rhymes with sage for a reason.”
“Your Thoughts Create Your Reality”
“Let us be sure that those who come after will say of us-we finished the race, we kept them free, we kept the faith.”
“Uncertainty is the refuge of hope.”
“You were not meant for a mundane or mediocre life! Stop letting the regret of yesterday and the insecurity of tomorrow steal your today. Live this day! Do not allow your spirit to be softened or your happiness to be limited by a day you cannot have back or a day that does not yet exist. Take charge! Seize this day and allow upon this fertile day to be planted the seeds of your happiness and success.”
“While intent is the seed of manifestation, action is the water that nourishes the seed. Your actions must reflect your goals in order to experience true success. Don't just wish, DO! Don't just dream, BE! Let today be the day you create a plan and follow it. Happiness, success, peace, love are experienced when we live accordingly. They are not something you have, they are something you DO.”
“The love of our neighbor in all its fullness simply means being able to say to him, "What are you going through?"”
“Don't dilute yourself for any person or any reason. You are enough! Be unapologetically you.”
“You can only see progress when you start doing something, so don't expect anything without your efforts.”
“Stop letting others define you! Stop letting others dilute you! You weren't created to live their life; you were created to live yours - so LIVE it! You can reignite that fire within and bring the passion back into your goals, dreams, ambitions, careers, and relationships by reclaiming control of your own life. Be unapologetically YOU!”
“The improvement of understanding is for two ends: first, our own increase of knowledge; secondly, to enable us to deliver that knowledge to others”
“It doesn't matter if you're 20, 40, 60, 80, or 100. Embrace your sexy-ass self and express it!”
“The only thing that makes life unfair is the delusion that it should be fair.”
“Happiness starts with telling yourself...I ______________(insert your name here) will change for the better, for the good, and for myself...starting NOW!”
“I want you to believe in yourself, and take chances, even if it is scary and even if you don't know what you are doing yet.”
“If you have hurt your self esteem go deep to a point that everything else after that inspires you”
“Have difficulty trusting? Dedicate yourself to being trustworthy and in alignment to who you say you are. Do this and see how your perceptions, and the world around you, changes.”
“You overthrow yourself when you are not balanced”
“If you look yourself in mirror for a minute you are in pain and if you look much longer you are depressed”
“Grace: The power of the omnipresent, exquisite Divine (the governing force that lives in and through all things) revealing itself as supreme love, by which one can find guidance, support and inspiration, as well as healing and regeneration. Simply put, Grace is “God” in action.”
“I love u but God loves you more.
God loves you and so do i”
“Unhappiness is best defined as the difference between our talents and our expectations”
“Be curious always! For knowledge will not acquire you: you must acquire it.”
“I was surprised how fast California became a model, ... It's inspiring.”
“I give credit for my achievement to you and my downfall to myself”
“Make your journey of life so impressive that people along your journey and people following your path never regret about you”
“Everyone has to start somewhere. So get out there and start.”
“Never undervalue who you are, and NEVER underestimate what you are capable of.”
“success, life goals, goal setting, inspirational”
“Progress, You can see how well you are doing on achieving your goals, after you start something.”
“Just because you're not ready for something to happen doesn't mean it shouldn't.”
“Making it happen, It's just something you gotta do.”
“Take control of your future by taking a choice of starting it right now.”
“With success, if you don't plan and just take each day as it comes, there will come failure.”
“Sometimes the 'day' you're dreaming for never comes. Take control of your future and start now.”
“If you can endure, if you can persevere, if you can work and not grow weary, if you're both obsessed and talented, well, you might have a shot.”
“"You are not defined by the thoughts of others but by the actions you take to define yourself!"- Mariah Prussia”
“I’m a 'Silver Back' by virtue of years on the planet but it would be exaggerating to say I'm an alpha or apex male - competition’s too stiff”
“I don't like you for your looks but for your heart”
“I have no time to Cry because my Focus is to Fly in the Sky !”
“Every country has beauty...but it's the people that make it beautiful!”
“I can't teach you to swim when you believe that you're drowning on dry land.”
“I discover myself everyday every moment and what you have known about me is now history”
“Listening to the truth is a lifestyle!”
“Referrals are a result of trust and trust is built one word at a time”
“Reaching out to others is the secret to debugging the many problems bugging our lives.”
“Persist with your today's ideas,for today's rejected ideas may be hungrily sought after tomorrow.”
“Breakthrough simply means persistence to success.”
“Sometime you will feel much better while telling a lie, then telling a truth which you really hate.”
“If you can not Trust, You can not love.”
“It's unfortunate to love/like everyone because most won't even give you a chance.”
“Only one thing is holding you back from achieving your dreams: You.”
“Every human has the right to become rich,provided you come to the wealth avenue with your beliefs.”
“WARNING!If no new ideas are generated today,man may become an endangered specie tomorrow.”
“Accustom yourself continually to make many acts of love, for they enkindle and melt the soul.”
“Believe & you shall have offspring's called beliefs.”
“A possible mind is the starting point & gateway to the world of possibilities.”
“Times of uncertainties births great opportunities.”
“A possible mind is the code that can decode all impossibilities.”
“How to receive the good things of life;Desire good for another.”
“Most people think salvation comes from abroad,capital No,for it comes from within.”
“Wish;Is an acronym for With Intensity of desires Success Happens.(WISH)”
“I am still in search of myself so how can i expect you to know me”
“The spoken word in which you have absolute control over should be used to your maximum advantage.”
“Knowledge is the key, and success is the treasure chest”
“When your looking for the love you thought you had for someone and it starts to become too difficult to find, then maybe that love was never there to begin with.......”
“All it takes is just to say yes to God and He will do magnificent things.”
“The power of envy rests solely upon the bad judgement of fear. To envy is to idolize. To idolize is to sin. As to sin is to Hell.”
“Do not dwindle in the thoughts of failure, for success rises slowly upon the adrenaline of overcoming loss. Rise to greatness as thy fall vanishes with the night...”
“Those of great success never started with the masses. Most started with just a pen in paper, in a small two bedroom apartment with nothing but candle light to guide their way to victory.”
“Assemble your army wisely; their sacrifice, loyalty and fight towards your mission will ultimately determine victory or defeat.”
“When you stop fearing the world...You become the predator, and the unspoken for becomes your prey. Ultimately this planet will becomes your playground, for there is no telling what you'll make of it.”
“Do you want to be right or be correct? Being right is having an ego, being correct is a position of knowledge!”
“What can be done today requires way more energy to do tomorrow.”
“The beliefs of the believer is his saving grace.”
“Until you can mentally see wealth,poverty will always be your lot or experience in life.”
“The biggest opportunities for advancement in life & business are during times of uncertainties.”
“Every word you speak good or bad is a seed that will automatically germinate in the nearest future.”
“"Be very grateful for the things you have and the things you do not have.”
“Fundamentals will always prevail! Fundamentals create confidence and calm you under pressure!”
“When you think you can you might. When you think and believe you can you will. Only when you achieve that you thought of and believed in you have succeeded.”
“Be courteous to people & then you bring out the courteous spirit in them,but be aggressive & then you bring out the aggressive spirit in them,for every man has an aggressive spirit.”
“When looking for opportunities,don't look everywhere,but look for it inside rough diamonds.”
“You’ll never have a journey with an ego. Your ego will always detour that journey!”
“No human can ever boast of knowing or experiencing the full potentials of the human mind.”
“To always be number one,then let one be the only number you love to conceive.”
“Is the oak better than the acorn which is its fullness and completion?”
“When you talk too much, you’re trying to convince. Talkers convince, listeners close!”
“We cannot continue to dine,groan & moan with failure in a world where success abound & is unlimited.”
“Your dominant thoughts may lead you to the path of life in domination.”
“Who can unravel the mystery box? The one with self belief plus the power to connect with the subconscious realm.”
“If crises does not end your ability to make money,then your money will definitely end crises.”
“Even with all the Lace, you can't be an Ace without God's grace.-RVM”
“Never give up and sit down, find another way.”
“Don't Wrestle With Change or Mental Bankrupty! Make a Change Today!”
“You sound like whoever you’re around every day, it’s the same with your business!”
“Don't waste Time, you can't get more of it. Even if you give away all you have, you can't get back a Minute.-RVM”
“Never be limited by your circumstance or environment,rather limit your circumstance & environment with your beliefs.”
“How can you get to where you want to go from listening and taking advice from people who have never been there?”
“Never over believe someone's limiting beliefs concerning you.”
“EYE is an acronym for Engage (Yourself positively) Everyday.(EYE)”
“Never expect positive situations always,but endeavor to see all situations with a positive mind to harvest positive fruits from them.”
“Does your business speak to your consumer without you opening your mouth?”
“The raw material needed to accomplish great things is not money,but beliefs.”
“There is no bigger obstacle than the one you think you can not overcome”
“Witnessing the dawn of a new day shows life is willing to breath in you a new idea.”
“Often changes gives you options to choose the Best”
“This life is a business venture & what dividend are you going to reap from life today?”
“Show me how you treat those of a lower class than you are & I will tell you how proud or humble you are.”
“The joy of one success far supercedes the ninety nine miserable attempts that may sometimes be called failure.”
“You don't judge a tree by the name it Wears, you judge a tree by the fruit it Bears.-RVM”
“A reputation drives referrals and your referrals drive consumers to your business!”
“This world will no longer be safe & certain,once a great dreamer has been birthed inside it.”
“Even though you may be from the poorest of the poor background,encourage yourself by saying,"All though I may be poor,but I still share the same sky,air & time with the rich.”
“We are FREE, not bound like a Tree. We can Move, we can Dance... We can take a Chance!-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎Stayinspired‬”
“The sun never truly shines on all corners of the Earth. Those shadowy; untouched, crevices mark the dormant and lifeless territories of hell. Let that not be your final destination, but may the rewards of success be your sudden move of desperation.”
“Development increases self belief! You can't build the structure until you build the foundation!”
“Thoughts expressed is akin to stretching your life into another dimension,for definitely your life will never remain the same again.”
“Too many business owners lower their prices with the expectation that it will bring in more profits. Instead of lowering prices, focus on providing value that exceeds price!”
“Witnessing a brand new day signifies a new opportunity to express your talents.”
“A poor attitude ruins the finest of aptitudes.”
“A salesperson is transaction based, a marketer is life- based!”
“In loving, be clear on the difference between intensity and intimacy. Are you more committed to revealing yourself and to transparency, or simply going for the rush.”
“A negative mental attitude contaminates the atmosphere & makes success impossible to be interpreted in a person's life.”
“If the Universe graciously shows you the way to success,never believe it is by your power,for the Universe is showing you the way,so that in turn you can show others beside your family.”
“You can never tell what the poor go through daily,unless you have passed through the poverty route yourself.”
“The wise respond. The foolish react. The wise think & then act. The foolish act and then regret.-RVM #Inspiration #Stayinspired”
“Rather than compare yourself with another,compare yourself with your inner being,the one that can do what others can't conceive.”
“If you first make your work to be your friend,this will make your work excellent & excellent work begeth excellent friends.”
“If we learn to give people opportunity,the best will always come out from the lot.”
“One of the greatest miracles in life is the power of man to reproduce after his kind.”
“Today the world seems to be like a stagnated place,because the majority of humanity are not eager to see others rise.”
“The mind can make the hardest venture to be as soft & easy as wool.”
“You may have Limitations, but don't let the Limitations Limit you! -RVM”
“You can take the ladder, don't need it, I'm already at the top with the help of these angel wings.”
“The endeavor of man has proved fruitful, as we have taken our rightful place among the stars.”
“The enemy of procrastination, fear, and doubt will attack you when you are weary, so commit to resting your mind and spirit!”
“The fastest way to cut a tree is by first cutting its main branches & the fastest way to reach destination success is by first believing fast.”
“We will struggle regardless of what we choose to do with our lives. Why not struggle for what we want most?”
“Never think small,because great things can only happen with great thoughts.”
“It's not about who you think you are; it's who you want to become. #InfinitePossibilities ”
“If you live in Fear, Success will disappear. -RVM”
“One must be in right relationship with oneself to maintain healthy relationships with others. You'd be surprised how many depend on others to keep them happy. This is bass ackwards.”
“If you want different results, you have to do things differently!”
“The reason things didn't work out is because yesterday being Monday was not favorable to the idea,but today being Tuesday might be more favorable to the idea.”
“I am undefeated because I have not given up the fight. Although I may have losses, my successes outweigh the smallest or largest attempted defeat.”
“You complain and cry as the days go by; you work for paychecks rather than fly. Death draws closer, almost time to lie; start ‘LIVING THE DREAM’ before you die.”
“Believe in your dreams, for if you have dreamt it, haven’t you already been there once? Believe; it can happen to you.”
“Life is like the one bullet in the chamber, you only got one shot at it. So make sure you make it count.”
“When you go the extra mile for yourself, you go the extra mile for your consumers!”
“Don't give up on life until life has given up on you”
“the great ones are those who did what they thought”
“Making a Unexpected mistake is like revealing a answer in a unsuspecting way.”
“Every now and then, I hear people say that the road to success is always under construction. Waiting for that road to be fixed is just lazy. Why not make a detour, you know?”
“Life didn't come with instructions so it will get hard...but deal with it, Soon your gonna find the parts of life.”
“Reminder to all... Please make this world a beautiful place to live by thinking that we are all EQUAL and treating each other as EQUALS so that at the end of the day we will all smile EQUALLY.”
“Destiny happens after the climb.”
“And when you get hurt, you usually HIDE it... But sometimes the HURT is too much for you to HIDE... and that is the TIME you will release it and if that will happen you will end up being the BAD one and the HURT you feel will be equated to being UPSET or worst DEPRESSION. To HIDE or NOT to HIDE.”
“We get paid for bringing value to the market place.”
“Dreams are gifts from the Universe to help beautify the world.”
“You can have everything in life except love and have nothing, but you can have nothing in life except love and have everything.”
“How to Influence the children of the rich to be richer; No matter the level of your wealth,show them that there is still a deeper realm to riches & fame & that you have only succeeded in scratching the surface.”
“Those that will be privileged to enjoy tomorrow's luxuries are only those that dare to dream big today.”
“Another word for today is Mystery,because no one knows the events good or bad that will manifest & shape today,before today expires.”
“Never ever give in to those that doubt you, chances are that they are scared of trying things to. And the only way that you will ever know, is by giving it a really, really, good go. And when anyone says that you can't do it. Remember this line, NEVER, EVER QUIT!”
“Failures can happen at any time, as long as you stay strong you will always be fine. Deep down in yourself you already know,  what you dream of achieving will mean having a go. Just remember that you will never give yourself a chance to win, if when things get tough you just give in. Never Quit!”
“I have to do it, if not then who will?.”
“Who can challenge the one that has understood how to utilize the secret & formidable powers of the mind?”
“Don't be soo afraid to fall, that you don't even chase for success.”
“The Universe is here to painstakingly serve humanity,for it is Ever ready to serve us with whatsoever dishes of success we desire.”
“Yes every performer is applauded what matters are its echoes surrounded!”
“Don’t be afraid to have goals and dreams. Even in the face of haters and those who do not believe in you, don’t stop dreaming.”
“Do not stop pursuing your dreams in the midst of all the difficult situations you find yourself to be in. Instead, set your goals in faith.”
“Always see your mistakes as a learning curve.”
“Happiness isn't about Choices, it's making the Right decision without much of a choice.”
“You can also make your flaws work for you.”
“All the disappointments you have experienced so far in this life is for a purpose,to learn more about life.”
“Only by facing your demons can you stop them from having power over you.”
“Have your one good cry, pick your chin up, smile, and move on to the positive.”
“Don't fail to try because this is how winners roll.”
“I hate to closely associate with the mentally poor,because they are capable of corrupting my mentally rich mind.”
“A ray of light has traveled 149597870700 meters from the Sun to the Earth, just to brighten your day. Keep persevering and you to, will go a very long way!”
“Never think twice, when you have decided once.”
“Sorrow or worries only happening in your life because of you. If you are alone, don't think to share your feelings with others. Try to convince yourself after that put new ideas to solve your problem in your own way.”
“When you deny yourself the option to look back, you somehow find a solution for moving forward.”
“Don't shortchange yourself,rather dream big,for life will give you whatsoever you painstakingly desire.”
“Make every day count, because you're never promised a next day.”
“Life's Irony;The Clock provides humanity time & even though all numbers 1-12 are residing inside the time providing clock,they still have to patiently wait for the appropriate time that the three hands of the clock will visit them to make them relevant.”
“Wealth is not measured of how much you have, but it measured of how much you have done to others.”
“Its just the matter of time when ideas change into plans and plans into action, one just needs to stick to the original thought.”
“Whenever it comes to doing anything. Remember the part about having confidence.”
“I'm not trying to figure out the puzzle in other people. I'm trying to fix my puzzle when I see it in other people.”
“When you deny yourself the option to look back, you somehow find a solution for moving forward.”
“I don't speak on the if's and what's of what I don't know. I speak on the I know of what I've learned to know.”
“You have to accept whatever comes and the only important thing is that you meet it with courage and with the best that you have to give”
“Just because those around you do not constantly tell you what they are going through in their personal life, it does not mean they are living in a fairytale.”
“An environment filled with ideas is a hostile place for poverty to survive & thrive.”
“Your life is a choice. What you do is all a choice. Whether you live or you die, all a choice. Whether you fail or succeed, you very well have total control over what relic you choose to place down for your future generations. Do not be so naïve to believe that one man can make a difference. Don't be so meek to believe that you can change the world.”
“A book over the sea has two choices,either to swim or drown it lyrics”
“I don't have to understand the in and out of you. I have to understand when its time for me to get out of you, and into me.”
“I went to the trade show early this morning. I traded all of your evil thoughts about me for one good thought about myself. I’m great from the crown of my entrance to the depth of my departure.”
“Invest heavily in your beliefs & your fortified beliefs will never lead you astray.”
“Armed with our beliefs,there is so much we can accomplish in this believable life.”
“Tell them what you do, and if they want to know more, they’ll ask.”
“Peek into the world history and kakistocracy would be found everywhere, it was always a common man like us who stood against it.”
“Tell them what you do, and if they want to know more, they’ll ask.”
“Lay it all on the line and then cross that line.”
“All ways will lead and take you there as long as you know where you want to go.”
“The leaderly response to personal irritation is to relax and open up not push, run, or close down.”
“Take control of your emotions before your emotions take control of you.”
“Keep an eye on your responses. Strong responses are about you more than them.”
“Every new beginning is like a baby birth: you must cry a lot and express natural emotions,you must be naked so get rid of your emotional baggage and you must take a deep breath to find your strengths to make changes…because after that you will be hugged tightly and loved unconditionally as you deserve.”
“The ideal is to respect the ways of life and beliefs of others. The only responsibility that we have as individuals is to direct our own lives, without interfering with others.”
“Ever wondered, why "never" never said "ever" that "ever" is a part of "never" ever? Because we never ever think such a thing ever!”
“It is better to write poetry in silence, never to be found, than publish spoiled muck in the hopes of appeasing the tainted populous”
“Discover yourself, trust yourself and be yourself.”
“The disbelief misfortune of the pessimist makes them eat the leftover of the fortunate optimist.”
“Make an impact in life today either through your actions or through your intentions.”
“He that is content with the good he currently has,but never content with his aspirations is great.”
“Anytime you experience poverty,trial or hardship vent its fury in a devastating manner,know that its end is near.”
“Always make your good intentions known to the good people of the Universe.”
“No sane person will dream beyond his capacity & needs,for the dream world belongs to highly insane people.”
“Until your mind is salvaged,no amount of money thrown at you will be sufficient to salvage you.”
“The fruit on the tree of the past may be dead but it bared saplings which will grow fruit that can be picked at it's ripest point in the future”
“Serving humanity is the sole & most magnificent job man can ever embark upon in life.”
“Even though we have limited our abilities to see beyond our present challenges,nevertheless seeing births opportunities.”
“False illusions are fears breathing life on my emotions.”
“If tomorrow i realise that i miss you and in my past i have kissed you, then it could be that my whole life i have wished for you”
“If you don't recognise the person in the mirror its time to update your residual self image. People change and its not a bad thing, its called growing up”
“My Daughter is a Warrior. She conquered my House and Softened my Heart, One day i will eat a Feast in her House and Laugh about her Victory”
“Take control of your emotions before your emotions take control of you.”
“Life is a school where we learn, so don't stay in detention for the mistakes of yesterday, learn and move on”
“Envisioning and predicting our future will ensure we become a resilient species that stops engaging in risky behaviors”
“You can try too change the world, and you will probably fail because the world doesn't want change”
“You can give everything you have inside of you every day or night too better your life, but unless you give passion and principal your life will have gained nothing”
“Walking a thousand roads throughout my life, some good and some bad. I realised the one constant was you, my partner, my lover, my friend. At my side on every journey no matter the destination”
“My son's see me as their hero, if they only knew how they have saved me making them the real hero's”
“Develop your power of inspiration and compassion, and whole world opens up to you!”
“Engineers never stop thinking. We changing with the times”
“You have to focus your vision... Control what you look at!”
“Educate your heart, your mind will follow”
“When we authorize the clutter of others in our life it always establishes more clutter to enter our life.”
“The real essence of living is to meet one another's needs.”
“Even though humanity does not believe in you & never intend to do so in this life,trudge ahead with your beliefs.”
“I never wanted to change anyone else. I just wanted to change the way I seen everyone else.”
“Life's irony;People see your light at the end of your tunnel & they exclaim! lucky you,but they are ignorant of the fact that you have been through a long tunnel.”
“Lay it all on the line and then cross that line.”
“I'm a woman. I'm not ashamed of my feminity”
“Your talent already exists. You have to harvest it with motivation and self- belief!”
“Living a carefree life doesn't mean I don't care. It means I care enough about me to live free in the life that was given to me.”
“Your client’s life should profit because of your business. The ultimate profit is for your client’s life to change forever!”
“We can't call ourselves stewards of the earth if we non compassionate”
“Why Nature made wealth creation interdependent on another;So that man will be humble enough not to go about boasting that he made it all by himself.So he needs the banks,investors,suppliers,customers & employees to succeed.”
“If we all see life as a vanity place,because we are all headed for death;white or black & rich or poor,then the urge to live selfless lives will be ultimately maximized.”
“Take control of your emotions before your emotions take control of you.”
“Embrace new beginnings and seek forgiveness for past mistakes. Once they may have been a human error now they are lessons paving way for a brighter future.”
“the labour of unconditional love has no price tag nor has it any sense of time.”
“Value the opinion of your enemy , their harshness and criticism will only make you stronger.”
“Never award poverty the privilege to hinder you to dream as big as possible.”
“The shoes I wore yesterday , may not have appealed to you but they represent my humble beginnings.”
“You are the light in the darkness and fuel my very being. Your love brings a deeper meaning to my existence.”
“Your presence in this life is just once,hence endeavor to make a total & maximum impact.”
“Your never too young to know. what you want in life, first you have to reach it, second thing you have to accomplish it, final thing you have to appreciated it.”
“After suffering there will be victory, hold on and patience will lead you to harmony.”
“The ultimate key to righteousness is within you and starts with sincerity”
“It is ironic how yesterday I feared you and now I pity you . Today you no longer scare me I grew stronger and bigger. The tables have turned but I choose to turn the other cheek and walk away with my dignity.”
“Your efforts mean something to someone other than yourself.”
“Where can you make small changes? Just do something a little bit different every day to move you closer to your miracle!”
“The power to be able to renew yourself is by learning to stretch your mind with a new idea.”
“Boldly tell the world that "I desire to greatly impact you" & the world will gladly pave way for your desires.”
“If you are associating yourself and your business with unethical people or people that simply don't support you, then there's no way that you can expect explosive results long-term!”
“Total loss is; when you are ready to lose your dignity over something no matter how rewarding it is.”
“Thoughts are things,if we hold them long enough in our minds,they become valuable tools that can impact generations & humanity.”
“Life's Irony;Better be awake to life's harsh realities,than to be asleep to the fact that unreliability is man's nature.”
“Don’t just be who you are and what you are. Move, evolve, change, grow and become better each day. -RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎Satyinspired‬”
“If you want to do something, then it will be done!!!”
“If you want to do something, then it will be done!!!”
“Self- help is fluffy and puffy and only makes you feel good for a short time. Self- development builds your confidence so you can stay the course and press on to do things you’ve never done before!”
“Success is a journey that is meant to be shared with people that empower you and believe in you. You can't do it by yourself!”
“What’s at stake in your life? What will you go through for your miracle?”
“no more sad than regret at death.”
“Have great plans for this Universe,because this Universe is a great place.”
“There can be no forced inspiration.”
“I'm everything you love and fear.”
“No human is ever certain of witnessing tomorrow,because today is a mystery we are yet to fathom.”
“Am positive that my life will reflect nothing but positivity.”
“faith, hope and love does not make it easy,... but it gives you a reason to hold on.”
“...the most difficult thing to do, is to wait and the most painful thing to do, is to correct the mistakes of failing to wait....”
“...faith, hope and love does not make the journey easy,... but it gives you the reason to keep on...”
“It is dangerous to follow the world to perform all her beliefs,for it may lead some astray.”
“Just as every woman's pregnancy comes from the resources within,but with the aid of an external factor called perspiration or sex,so also every dream a person will accomplish in life will have to come from the resources within,but with the aid of an external factor called inspiration.”
“When you realize that life is once,you will know that no dream shall be too big to be infused into the entity called life.”
“Life's irony;Those that are mentally deficient are the only ones that lack & will continue to live in lack.”
“Until fear is defeated,finding prosperity will be a mirage.”
“This page is now written, the day has departed. I know this for certain, love triumphs the sad hearted.”
“Life is cheap, anybody can afford it but to get the best out of it, you have to be smart.”
“There are no winning limitations in life & there are also no loosing limitations in life.”
“Am in life to exhibit success Unlimited.”
“Our Life is more Important than our Limitations. Why do we let our Limitations control our Life? -RVM”
“Than being in love, I'm more inspired to write poems and quotes when pain eats my heart- sad truth.”
“You know the moment has arrived when you look into the eyes of the love of your life and time stands still...”
“Forgiveness is the strongest pain killer.”
“Throughout the centuries there were men who took first steps, down new roads, armed with nothing but their own vision.”
“Learn to always positively stay tuned to the positive channel or else you will miss the many goodies life has in stock for you.”
“Never award poverty the privilege to hinder you to dream,for inside dreams are the power to make poverty an endangered specie.”
“This Diwali… Don't just light up the Sky, but stop someone Cry. Don't just eat Sweets, but share your Love on the Streets. Don't just buy Gold, but help someone who is Helpless and Old.-RVM”
“Everyone who has ever taken a shower has had an idea. It's the person who gets
out of the shower, dries off, and does something about it that makes a difference.”
“I can guarantee that no matter how happy you are with your life, that you are not.”
“We are all called to be somewhere that we are not.”
“We are all called to be somewhere that we are not.”
“It was like not breathing. Going to practice just gave me inspiration to keep studying. I hung around, because I didn't want to let Coach Croom down. I know now what I should've been doing in my life.”
“At some point in time, one has to ask themselves, is this all the world has to offer me?”
“The power to get to your destination in life is by learning to appraise your assets using your mind.”
“If all your outward expectations or circumstances have been nothing but discouraging or disappointing,then its high time you look & depend on your inward being.”
“Don't let your life be a tape recorder of the misery of the past. You can do nothing about the past. -RVM”
“You mustn't worry about comparing your strength to others, but attaining the strength to reach your own personal goals.”
“Those blessed with the courage & faith to stare into impossibilities,eventually see possibilities.”
“In the Island of the unbelieving,the one with a little belief becomes the king.”
“This life is a place for adventure,dream adventure.”
“Great things do manifest in life,but disguised in the form of Great suffering.”
“Having the subconscious realm as the only source of your resources,is like having a sea that can never dry.”
“Caged birds don't sing if they are not happy”
“A hero is not only a brave individual, but a brave individual that dares to be different.”
“The Universe is always excited when dreamers tap from within it to build their dreams.”
“There is no impossibility where the mind says am possible.”
“The ability to exhibit aggressiveness in one's pursuit is one of the major secret of success in life.”
“You must drop your ego, look outside of yourself, and really listen to your customers. They will tell you what they want from your product and service, but you must actively listen!”
“Our greatest weakness is what others think of us, but in reality it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter if your hair looks bad, you smell bad, or you just don't fit in, all that matters is how kind you are.”
“If you can tell me how good you are, by showing me how bad I am. Then you must be my bad shadowing the good that I am.”
“I used to try and straighten myself out, until I learned that I was purposely created with curves.”
“Things will surely look up to him whose mind has been permanently tuned to the positive channel.”
“Be in tune with your subconscious department & be unnatural.”
“The traits,characters & riches you greatly admire in another are most times secretly embedded inside of you.”
“In the school called belief,the course called impossible is a forbidden one.”
“True friendship is not burdened by anything.”
“Friendship, just like a young green plant, needs to be nurtured.”
“People should not be judged by origin, affluence or spoken words, but primarily by their deeds.”
“Always think about the needs of others because being a part of a group is an essential characteristic of human nature.”
“Regardfulness is the minimum expression of decency.”
“Learn always and wherever possible, knowing that you'll never learn everything.”
“If you strive towards significant achievements, count on great difficulties on the way to realization.”
“Choose words carefully when you talk about people. Spoken words can sometimes hurt a human soul so strong that it can no longer be cured.”
“It may be said that people who give more, get more.”
“Love and advise your children unconditionally.”
“Don't judge people too strongly.”
“The power of positive thinking is vital for maintaining happiness, good health and longevity.”
“Our parents are always an important part of our inner life.”
“Art is the most creative result of the human mind.”
“People can enjoy music everywhere. Therefore, music is more than a gift because it represents a unique form of human freedom.”
“Just look at the sky when the rainbow appears and all the richness of colors will fascinate you completely.”
“Generosity means giving without expecting anything in return.”
“Do not criticize others unless you are willing to accept criticism.”
“Giving up is easy, persevering is more difficult, and achieving a result is the most difficult.”
“If you are convinced that you are not capable of doing something, you can only do it badly.”
“Hours seem like minutes when we have something to talk about, and minutes seem like hours when we have nothing to talk about.”
“A pragmatic person sees the dark and the light side of life, while an idealist sees a life filled with colors.”
“There are two types of sages: sages who tell us what we should do and sages who tell us what we shouldn’t do.”
“Be extremely careful when using irony: bear in mind that irony might be an overture for sarcasm.”
“You got one life, live your life don't live just for survive, enjoy the life fullest.”
“If you are constantly searching for happiness, you'll never find it.”
“Success is relative, but happiness is absolute.”
“A completely satisfied person arises after the realization of a long dreamed goal.”
“Being naturally happy is the most impressive sign of freedom.”
“A leader is a person who knows how to act when other people don’t.”
“If your endeavors result in success of the company in a continuity of at least a few years, you are a successful manager. If other companies follow your business approach, you are certainly an important manager with leader characteristics.”
“If you are born to lead, be a leader!”
“Open mind → Learning → Knowledge → Baseline for leadership”
“After all, choosing a profession is extremely challenging – it is likely the hardest thing one has to do in the period of reaching maturity.”
“There are more ways to choose a profession. One can choose it by
intention, by strong parental influence or even by accident.”
“A profession that completely matches your talent, aspirations and skills is the best profession you can choose.”
“Don't be too enthusiastic when choosing a profession – think of earning for life too.”
“Nothing is more important than a great idea that influenced the
development of civilization.”
“An idea is an amazing creation of the human mind, which comes either as a result of one's continuous endeavors for solving a certain problem or just as a spark that lights up the considered problem.”
“There is no better way to improve yourself than an exchange of ideas with peers.”
“The precondition for solving a problem is having a clear idea on how to solve it.”
“When an influencing idea comes to life, people cannot exactly predict all its inevitable consequences.”
“It is much more worthwhile to implement only one bright idea than collecting a thousand of them.”
“Some people have a handful of ideas, but not enough time to realize them.”
“An idea is like a spark in the dark – it makes everything brighter.”
“An unsolved problem bothers one's mind, just as a small stone in the shoe, until an idea for solving the problem comes to mind.”
“If you have an idea, you will likely have difficulties during the process of realization regardless of the type of idea (scientific idea, invention idea, business idea, new product idea, brand idea, advertising idea, etc.).”
“Having an open mind is the most important precondition for creating new ideas.”
“A great challenge for parents is how to prepare themselves for being successful in advising children.”
“Each child is a unique person, so raise your child taking this fact into consideration.”
“There is no better way to influence children than being their role model.”
“Always try to see the child's fault from his/her point of view.”
“Follow the same values that I've followed, but don't try to be my copy – rather be your own person.”
“Always try to avoid repeating the same mistakes; the price that you have to pay is often too high.”
“Always bear in mind how you act because children could copy your style.”
“How to advise parents for being successful in raising children still remains an important unsolved problem.”
“Even if someone is already dead in front of you, knock twice on the heart who knows they might answer.”
“One can impress me with pure honesty or with a brilliant mind.”
“Intellectual capacity is a precondition for becoming a man of knowledge.”
“The next presumption is always valid: one's knowledge corresponds to one's intellectual capacity.”
“Intellectual capacity is the key to solving any complex problem.”
“Learning continuously is the best way to build one's intellectual capacity.”
“Intellectual capacity will certainly grow if one learns continuously.”
“Intellectual Capacity ≡ Ability to Perform Mental Tasks ≡ Ability of New Knowledge Acceptance”
“Don't allow the excuses of No time and No Money to stop you from your destiny! You gotta fight!”
“If one is not prepared to fail, there is no way to achieve success in business and life.”
“One should learn by considering one's own failures that are a part of life.”
“Interestingly, people often boast that they are hard workers not
understanding that hardworking means spending a lot of time and energy on work.”
“Do your best, but bear in mind that sometimes even your best efforts don't give the desired results.”
“You shouldn’t ask a question until you are sure you want to hear the answer.”
“For any question – regardless of its complexity – there is a clear and simple answer.”
“There's no absolutely reliable way to achieve a great citation. However, hardworking could be fruitful.”
“Live your Life, don't live just to survive, enjoy the life fullest.”
“Adding your own piece of knowledge to the vast knowledge of the human race could be a sufficient reason for having existed.”
“Knowledge is the most beautiful manifestation of the human mind.”
“Two things influence one's wisdom: remarkable experience and – even much more – accumulated knowledge.”
“Love. When you give some away it is a beautiful compensation for your own soul.”
“Knowledge is an exceptional kind of property which cannot be lost or used up.”
“Regardless of one’s age, acquiring new knowledge has always been
useful.”
“A man of knowledge can certainly offer some reasonable options to solve a problem – the question is why such a man is not always included in problem solving.”
“It is certain that there is no limit to the vast ocean of knowledge.”
“Knowledge is the key driver of the progress of civilization.”
“The age of ex cathedra culture in education is definitely finished. These days, we use modern teaching methods in line with advances in technology that changes culture and even society itself. However, the biggest challenge for a modern education system is how to prepare new generations for living in a highly competitive world full of uncertainties.”
“Always educate yourself regardless of how old you are.”
“The best way to be a child again is to read fairy tales.”
“There is no greater achievement than being a grandfather who tells fairy tales to grandchildren.”
“A child’s best friend is often the one telling bedtime stories.”
“It is absolutely certain that we must act to protect nature much more efficiently than ever before. Tomorrow – when mankind will step forward to a totally uncertain future – will be too late.”
“Open-mindedness is a precondition for generating new ideas, but focusing on the problem is almost equally important.”
“A scientific mindset accepts the truth as a credo.”
“Evaluating people is quite difficult. In order to properly evaluate a man, we should have a chance to observe his behavior when he has nothing, and when he has everything.”
“It seems quite pointless to waste health relentlessly in order to earn money that we shall spend on recovering health.”
“Love is the beautiful blending of two hearts. It is an anointed moment of God's divine plan.”
“No matter where you live, live with dignity.”
“Creativity is an amazing human characteristic, which is more connected with curiosity than with knowledge.”
“A wise manager knows that it is sometimes more important to listen than to talk.”
“One may sleep as long as one prefers, but one should know that each hour of excess sleep is an hour lost for learning.”
“Asking why is the root of a scientific mindset.”
“Reading might be the root of ideas and inventions, even in the case of leisure reading.”
“Curiosity lies in a hidden corner of the scientific mind.”
“I have a thousand questions to which U are the only answer”
“Knowledge is a beautiful thing that can fill us with happiness. Let’s just think about our students who answered brilliantly to questions on various exams.”
“Whatever you plan, plan realistically.”
“It is said God created man so that he would be known,yet man knows not himself let alone the nature of God .
We must experience sorrow to know the meaning of happiness, poverty to know the value of wealth, greed to know contentment,war to know peace and ultimatley death to understand the true meaning of life. One day each and every one of will experience the later As much as God desired to be known it is my belief God wants us to know our selfs then only we can begin to know him"
Z.Alibhai.”
“Your smile shows kindness, the kind of a natural grace of God. It gives you life and rejuvenates the soul.”
“" Verily man will not be content untill he has destroyed himself and the environment that nurtures him, from oppression man has risen and instead of striving for logical freedom he fights to become the oppressor so he can hold his fellow man in the postition he was once in. Such is the sickness and insanity of man's mind this ideal is all he strives for "
Z.Alibhai”
“" Everything that has come into existence is imprinted on the fabric of life , which slowly fades untill it disapears as if it never existed at all. ultimatley all that remains is the fabric of life awaiting new imprints"
Z.Alibhai”
“We are all ordinary folks,but we can transmute into the realm of the extraordinary with our beliefs.”
“Embracing people with love will take your mind off trying to fix their life,”
“A woman of virtue is a Heavenly flower whom never dies because her soul is eternally beautiful.”
“you can knock a man down but not his pride”
“Success is feeling that comes as a result of achieving desire, goal, objective or a vision , & to achieve success you need persistence, willing & ability.”
““FAILURE teaches us, HOW MUCH VALUE we had during the SUCCESS....!””
“Is the Moon making it glow? or the Stars making it shine? Or is it SOMEONE else who is making it all just fine?”
“For those who love what they do, even working 18 hours a day, 7 days a week is not work at all. It is just fun.-RVM #Inspiration #Stayinspired”
“People travel round the world looking for magicians,not knowing that right within their minds are greater magicians.”
“the only color that binds is blood red.”
“I no longer weigh the things I've done in my life. I now measure what I plan on doing in my life.”
“Five things I tell myself: Enjoy the company of Gods many wonders. Affirm who you are with what you have. Hug yourself without regret. Refuse to allow the darkness of others to penetrate your light. Laugh at yourself often.”
“Marrying a nice guy whom you had doubts about could be your wisest mistake.”
“In order to succeed, your desire for success should be greater than your fear of failure.”
“The most beautiful thing about buying clothes is they'll play the part size with you, when you stop acting out with the wrong size about you.”
“Sacrifice today so that there may be a tomorrow.”
“Choices, not Chances, are responsible for the quality of our Life. Spend time to Think, Reflect, Introspect, and then Choose. -RVM”
“Happiness does not come from making money. It comes from spending it. Most people are doing otherwise. -RVM”
“Creative thinking births the creative fruits called success.”
“Fill the world with positivity & negativity will fizzle out.”
“Sow success & hope unto others & more success & hope becomes what you permanently reap.”
“Anything is possible, when you are prepared to do anything to achieve the impossible...”
“God will never ever fail to surprise us, sometimes we never understand why some things happened but I'm sure that GOD has his purpose, He has the best plans than ours.”
“You need to set your mind to reset the mindset that you are in”
“You need to set your mind to reset the mindset that you are in”
“Loving is like walking, you cannot learn to unless you fall.”
“In every situation man should learn to be thankful,because man can never control all situations,some situations will come better or worse than our expectation.”
“There are three phases in a persons Life;The valley of hopelessness & unbelief; The river of self appraisal & partial certainty & The mountain top of conquering & super belief.”
“Breakthrough begins when we absolutely believe in the breakthrough words we have spoken.”
“Imagination was given to man to compensate him for what he is not; a sense of humor to console him for what he is”
“I have outgrown people who conveniently disappear whenever life gets a little dark. I have outgrown those who take pleasure in gossiping and spreading negativity. I have outgrown dull, meaningless conversations that feel forced. I have outgrown those who don't take a stand against ignorance and injustice. I have outgrown trying to please everyone. I have outgrown society constantly telling me I'm not beautiful, smart, or worthy enough. I have outgrown trying to fix every little flaw.”
“I have outgrown my tendency to fill my mind with self-doubt and insecurity. I have outgrown trying to find reasons not to love myself. I have outgrown anything and anyone that does not enrich the essence of my soul. I have outgrown many things, and I've never felt freer.”
“Love is the strangest thing of all, it can be the most wonderful thing in the world, but it can also hurt you more than anything else.”
“Love is beautiful and I would not change it for any other gift in life!”
“Our reality is simply an interaction of energy.”
“So many people are afraid of rejection of others. Know this, if they live by the fruits of the Spirit of God they will not reject.”
“Channel the necessary energy, and you can move mountains. It is possible.”
“You ain't wealthy until you have something money can't buy”
“Energy is everything. Energy we can manipulate.”
“There is "one" in the universe. This "one" is expressed in unique ways.”
“Become an Energy Master.”
“Refusing dominance over others by using money is a clear sign of wisdom.”
“Less is more! The less you say, the more productive you will be!”
“Fear no risk and open more possibilities”
“Treat the mind with great respect,because it is a conceiver & believer of things,great or small & it is the only vehicle that can convey you to your destiny.”
“When my feet touched the floor the spirit spoke two words, love and victory.”
“You are capable of achieving the impossible if you believe you can.”
“There is nobody else on earth like you and me. Let us be who we are meant to be. -RVM”
“If You Feel Inspired Share it to Inspire Others.”
“Everywhere we go we see and listen to the sounds of birds. Their message to us is to spread our wings and fly.”
“Mentally love yourself so right, that you want to make others love you better.”
“Appreciate your life as it is. If you're not satisfied, change it.”
“When you strive at becoming the best that you can be, you've transitioned into becoming better than you were.”
“Always remember the weight of hate is heavy”
“Always interpret the hidden treasures of your dream.”
“Take a pen and sketch out your future.”
“Fire is known to be fire because of the heat it produce”
“Close your eyes, take a step of faith and enjoy the moment; that’s Living The Dream.”
“All good things are achieved with patience.”
“If you think about your future more then you gonna miss the things in your present.”
“Sweet serenity can be found in the bosom of those who choose to accept their life's reality, the truth that is within them, making them who they are!And not neglecting those inner desires but embracing those desires, living contently!”
“Every moment is a new beginning and my heart springs a new one.”
“The poverty route is never an option because prosperity abound.”
“The great became great all because they have absolute belief in today.”
“Life is a serious business that requires serious & extreme patience.”
“The words we utter will determine whether the Universe will be for us or against us.”
“A daily tip for getting ahead... Get the hell out of bed!!”
“Once I accepted all of me was just as God said I would be. I no longer allowed others to remind me of who I was, or who I should be.”
“I don't have to prove myself to anyone. I exist that's proof enough.”
“ In a holy temple you shall find love, peace, joy, light, praise, glory, grace, mercy and truth.”
“A gift may look ordinary but when given with love it becomes a priceless treasure.”
“Love like there is no tomorrow, say the words to the people that matter most, cry until you cleanse your soul and live your life to the fullest.”
“With the right knowledge you can rewrite your destiny”
“Reading books without feeling books is like eating without digesting.”
“Time is the competition of life.
Miguel F. Saucedo”
“if 'tomorrow' existed, i would never live in 'today'”
“Poverty has no other option but to hide its shameful face,where ideas of prosperity flourish.”
“You don't need a cape to be a hero to someone.”
“I am like an oyster, rough and wrinkly from the outside but shiny in the inside”
“¨Today use to be the Greatest Day of my Life, until I found out about tomorrow¨”
“It is man's duty to keep updating,motivating & guarding his beliefs jealously every blessed day or else doubts may overtake it.”
“Even though success is 90% guaranteed inside failure,failure should never be an option to opt for.”
“Break my heart if you promise it’ll make me better.”
“Before you even walked this earth, you were predestined for greatness. If this wasn't so then you wouldn't have been given this life.”
“You have the power to succeed, prosper and conquer any challenges that come your way. All you have to do is embrace them.”
“It's the most simplest things in life that make life worth it. Such words as look forward to see you with a smile of God's grace.”
“Your dreams will never come true without your help.”
“The more knowledge you share, the more knowledge you gain.”
“Even if the rains can be converted into money,the accumulation of wealth will still be like filling a basket with water for those not tuned to the rich & positive channel.”
“When you run and many people run behind you, you can be sure of atleast two things, either you are a star or you are a fraud.”
“Looks inspire judgement which is why people are mislead to thinking that im no different, isolate yourself from the negativity and learn to love not hate.”
“To be brave you shouldn't mind being in the grave.”
“Do not succumb to your adversity and allow it to take you away from us. Instead, show the world that rising above your ashes, in spite of it all, is the you we always loved.”
“Allow our hearts to be embraced with God's light; leaving it with a glorious love for our life.”
“Until we endeavor to see light in our endeavors,darkness shall continue to terrorize us.”
“There is so much greatness that can be exhibited in this life,if we dare to unleash our indomitable belief system.”
“To make today memorable,never abandon beliefs.”
“I have fallen so often, that I am no longer afraid of falling, I have felt hurt so much, that I can now control how to feel. I tried so hard to find me, and I have learned, that life isn't about finding yourself, it is about letting go and feeling free.”
“My community and society do not define me, my motivations and determinations do.”
“Never forget to take beliefs along in your journey towards success.”
“Life irony;We humans sometimes believe we are so poor that we think we can offer no one a valuable thing,but forgetting the fact that our ordinary greetings can be so rich that it can greatly enrich another.”
“Always appreciate others and strive to be the best”
“Always inspire others and lead them”
“Sometimes the further you go to find where you are, the more you realize how close you were, to where you wanted to be...”
“Everyday there will be an opportunity to Frown or to Smile, to Drown or to Dance, to be Sad or to be Glad. It's a Choice!-RVM”
“It's the waste of time to think about the wasted time.”
“It's the waste of time to think about the wasted time.”
“Life's Irony;Forget about the superficial smiles,for the average human is never too excited about the success of another.”
“When you give up you don't see the beautiful end, you only see the last error committed.”
“FAITH creates Energy that makes Success possible. DOUBT paralyses and makes the possible impossible.-RVM #Inspiration #Stayinspired”
“Great things have been done by "stupid" people!”
“Keep talking about the vision,even if there is negative feasibility for the vision to ever materialize.”
“It’s great to celebrate the birth of our Lord, but greater still is the realization that he is born everyday within the temple of our heart and lives therein with us eternally.-RVM”
““Being afraid is not a sign of weakness. Being afraid is a sign of a will to live, it is an indication that we place value in our lives and those in it. The only defeat in fear is allowing your fear to defeat you.””
““When you are at your lowest point, those that stay at your side will love you the most in hopes of helping to see you through your pain.””
““Be kind. Be kind to others, be kind to animals, be kind to yourself. Smile at the mailman, pet your dog, buy yourself an ice cream cone. Spreading kindness in this world is the noblest thing a person can do.””
“"If things are not going my way...then definitely it's going in God's way...and God doesn't do bad to anyone".”
“human brain is a politician and the heart is a lover”
“Being born poor is not optional but dying poor is.”
“Knowledge is the only trait you can be proud of.”
“There's always a better way to do things.”
“There's always a better way to do things.”
“Life take you to worst situation just to teach you, it depends on you weather you LEARN or GIVE UP.”
“Tomorrow is always better than yesterday.”
“The Universe is only looking for that vessel that can believe greatly,irrespective of race or religion,to deposit great wealth inside it.”
“In life, we pursue and work hard for the respect we feel an honorary title carries. Will it be etched on your headstone: In this grave lays a great CEO, VP and so on? After searching for years, wisdom has spoken: Your name holds the key to your diary of life. In the end, the admiration and true story will be told in a good mans name, not in a man made title.”
“Great things are surely going to emanate from your humble beginnings,if you remain permanently tuned to the positive channel from your humble beginnings.”
“Man got to be strong & determined as a man to overcome the many temptations life occasionally throws at us.”
“When a man has great aspirations for himself and his loved ones, holidays don’t have procrastination in mind. It’s always about opportunities to learn and grow.”
“Life = Work Earn Eat Roam and Hustle....”
“Do you earn for others to burn? Why not GIVE as you LIVE, so that when you die, the world will cry. -RVM”
“Believe in the miracles of tomorrow!”
“We can make today a resounding success,if we endeavor to believe in her.”
“Prepare for success and take bold action, as opposed to letting fear steal your dreams!”
“Just declaring & believing the word guarantees our future.”
“To avoid grave disappointment in life,learn to dine with a long spoon with people,including your spouse,because no one can tell what may befall tomorrow.”
“Acquiring new knowledge has been crucial for survival over the millennia.”
“Knowledge is the key to the development of civilization.”
“If you do not manage things, be prepared to face the consequences.”
“We spend the first day of January walking through our lives, room-by-room, drawing up a list of things to be done, cracks to be patched. Maybe this year, to balance the list, we ought to walk through the rooms of our lives... not looking for flaws, but for potential. Unleash your full potential and live your unlived life.”
“There is a tide in the affairs of men & if identified & followed boldly will lead to everlasting wealth.”
“Capitalists are motivated not chiefly by the desire to consume wealth or indulge
their appetites, but by the freedom and power to consummate their entrepreneurial
ideas.”
“Happy New Year! How can the New Year be happy unless You are Happy? How can the New Year be New unless You are New? Resolve in 2-0-1-6 to be a New You and a Happy You and you will find 2016 to be a Happy New Year!- RVM”
“There are powers inside of you which, if you could discover and use, would make of you everything you ever dreamed or imagined you could become.”
“The key to a successful life is confidence”
“Our faith and trusting in God is the outward expression of our love to Him.”
“Be a genuinely happy person even without material possessions. That alone constitutes success.”
“If today was your final bow, that final curtain call. Could you leave this place knowing you had done all you aspired to do? Or would you be the dream that was too far from reach? The dream that was just that... A dream?”
“Life is your biggest Treasure. Enjoy it. If you forget to, it will soon be gone, never to return.-RVM”
“While your heart is beating, be still and listen; you might hear a love song. Be encouraged and don't give up on your dream follow your heart, not your thought.”
“Intuition is a gift from God, it is your birthright. What you do with it is your gift back.”
“Our feelings are the wings of our intuition.”
“Our destinies are tied & related to the words we utter.”
“i am the man whose soul feeds on pride”
“If you are tired of getting the wrong answers, start asking the right questions!”
“Paint, and a little prayer, can cover a multitude of sins!”
“Life's Irony;Rather than go for abundance,man is content with feasting on crumbs.”
“In choosing what direction to take in life, love, and peace must meet.”
“The secret to life's magical breakthroughs are nothing magical,but they only happen when people dare to observe events very closely & meticulously.”
“The Wise Men deeply saw the true reality before them. It is in that shift in perceiving and thinking which allowed them to see what was really present, and to be changed by the experience, not changed by their expectations.”
“'It is what it is' may be true; but what it will be is up to you.”
“Opinions don't matter when results speak!”
“Come hike with me. The best one is yet to be.”
“Having what you want may give you Achievement. But wanting what you have will give you Fulfillment. -RVM”
“A sound mind is only as sharp as the voice it hears”
“Lift your voice of praise today and watch how He brings new miracles your way.”
“There is too much ME in a world filled with US”
“The grass that you touched always have your footprints in it, but it's us who forget the path we once walked through.”
“True strength is defined not by how much you can lift,for it is defined by how much you can carry...”
““Faith is like the wind,
It’s what we feel but can not see”.”
“True love can only be found, By those who truly believe it exists.”
“" What is the meaning of life" Love is...”
“What Is Love;
Love gives without asking,
Love is Infinite,everlasting.”
“i don't force you to be mine but my heart forces me to make you mine”
“It takes time for your time to come,,,”
“The appreciator increases,but the depreciator decreases forever.”
“How to make a person perfect;Learn to appreciate his imperfection & from there perfection will blossom.”
“The giving of love is an education in itself”
“The doorway to destiny is within your reach. Open it and create your own world.”
“All of life is an algorithm; we just don't understand the math.”
“Reflect and learn from your past, change your status quo and innovate towards the person you've always dreamt and desired to be, it's time to uncuff and unleash the new you; Happy New Year!”
“Time is an investment; make prudent choices and hope that your investment appreciates in time.”
“Don't Be A Fan Of Other's
Be A Fan Of Yours”
“The presence of happiness in our lives make people repulsive. So, don't bother much about them.”
“One must celebrate what one is good at.”
“The lack of fear of death is the beginning of living life to the fullest.”
“Its an honour to be a citizen of this great Universe & contribute my little quota all for the benefit of humanity.”
“Communication is key in life! It is as valuable as a key to your car. If you do not have this key, you will not get anywhere and are left unsure of how to get where you need to go!”
“The only way you can take a step of faith and move forward in life, is if you believe in yourself!”
“You are divine and Holy; for you are personally blessed by God, you are His perfect creation.”
“The process of Unknown to known”
“four walls, one door and one thought can make ding in the universe ”
“The best way to demonstrate your faith is to always let the will of God be done in your life.”
“When it comes to dreams i am a desperate man, and i will stop at nothing to get what i want.”
“To become something else is better that to become nothing at all.”
“What makes a man is the choices he makes, when he decides to start something and how he controls its outcomes.”
“Was I said to be successful? I don’t think so, but the world told me I was successful and it felt so good that I became a success.”
“Through the years, I’ve learned that if you wait until your fear is gone, the opportunity will have already passed. Similarly, if you wait until you’re 100% sure, you’ll get it perfect, but you’ll never get it started on time for these are the reasons most successful people don't enjoy much of their success in their old days.”
“If your ultimate goal is making money everything that makes a dollar will look desirable.”
“If your ultimate goal is making money everything that makes a dollar will look desirable.”
“Remember, your goals are your goals. People may not want to go as far as you.”
“Remember, your goals are your goals. People may not want to go as far as you.”
“Build your dreams on the foundation of hard work and faith; not trust. No one can take away from your hard work and belief but you can lose it all on trust.”
“Build your dreams on the foundation of hard work and faith; not trust. No one can take away from your hard work and belief but you can lose it all on trust.”
“Friends will remind you of how GREAT you are. Anyone who reminds you constantly of how bad it was is suspect.”
“Friends will remind you of how GREAT you are. Anyone who reminds you constantly of how bad it was is suspect.”
“There is nothing worse than arguing with an unproductive critic. That is a no-win situation.”
“There is nothing worse than arguing with an unproductive critic. That is a no-win situation.”
“People are very fickle. Once you realize that you'll take things less personal.”
“People are very fickle. Once you realize that you'll take things less personal.”
“A secret to your progress will be a strong belief in your own abilities. People will try to hold you back. Some will even "try" to close doors but if you believe in your very own abilities, I promise you will do all that they didn't want for you and more.”
“A secret to your progress will be a strong belief in your own abilities. People will try to hold you back. Some will even "try" to close doors but if you believe in your very own abilities, I promise you will do all that they didn't want for you and more.”
“Mediocrity is common. It's so easy to fit in. Have enough courage to breakaway and set sail on something greater.”
“Let love find its place in the Holy temple.”
“Money doesn't define people but character does. People with character will see pass the money. The person without either is simply blind.”
“Money doesn't define people but character does. People with character will see pass the money. The person without either is simply blind.”
“Stay focused on your goals and don't let toxic people take anything away from your vision.”
“Stay focused on your goals and don't let toxic people take anything away from your vision.”
“When you start from the bottom, there will be a host of people so used to you being there, they won't want you to grow. Some naive people still call them “friends.” But “friends” don't strangle your dreams.”
“When you start from the bottom, there will be a host of people so used to you being there, they won't want you to grow. Some naive people still call them “friends.” But “friends” don't strangle your dreams.”
“Fake people always seem like they’re winning because they’re always lying.”
“your life depends on how you make use of it”
“If your friends don't support you, then divorce them. Get married to your dreams. Ten years from today, what they said about you will not matter. What you did with your time ultimately will.”
“If your friends don't support you, then divorce them. Get married to your dreams. Ten years from today, what they said about you will not matter. What you did with your time ultimately will.”
“Following the crowd only leads to you getting lost. Find yourself by following your heart.”
“Following the crowd only leads to you getting lost. Find yourself by following your heart.”
“Some friends will try to do things to hurt you. Your job is not letting it get to your heart.”
“Some friends will try to do things to hurt you. Your job is not letting it get to your heart.”
“If any new situation alters your friendship that was never your friend. Life may change but friends of the heart do not.”
“If any new situation alters your friendship that was never your friend. Life may change but friends of the heart do not.”
“Who sold you that mentality and how much did it set you back?”
“Who sold you that mentality and how much did it set you back?”
“Find a mentor who only has your best interest at heart. Friends will sometimes give you opinions based on how they view your potential.”
“Find a mentor who only has your best interest at heart. Friends will sometimes give you opinions based on how they view your potential.”
“The silliest reason to fall out with someone is because they start improving their life. What kind of friends do you want?”
“The silliest reason to fall out with someone is because they start improving their life. What kind of friends do you want?”
“To avoid drama and the crowd, you must avoid drama and the crowd.”
“Our thoughts may become miracles.”
“People will always reveal how they feel about themselves by how they treat and talk about others.”
“People will always reveal how they feel about themselves by how they treat and talk about others.”
“Small minds want you to stay small with them. When you reach for higher grounds, they work hard to bring you back.”
“There is definitely mighty shift of love, compassion, clarity, power and peace coming to you right now. Receive from our Lord on this day!”
“Everyone is your friend for a reason. Love those unconditionally that are your friends without reward because they are into you.”
“Everyone is your friend for a reason. Love those unconditionally that are your friends without reward because they are into you.”
“Be authentic at all times. That's what makes you real.”
“Be authentic at all times. That's what makes you real.”
“People love to converse with people who boost their false realities.”
“People love to converse with people who boost their false realities.”
“Friends that become envious or jealous of you aren't bad people. The change came when you began going places in life they did not see for you. Some of them are afraid you will fail and fall. Some are afraid you will succeed and leave them. It's their belief system that attacks you, not their heart.”
“Friends that become envious or jealous of you aren't bad people. The change came when you began going places in life they did not see for you. Some of them are afraid you will fail and fall. Some are afraid you will succeed and leave them. It's their belief system that attacks you, not their heart.”
“Tell your dreams to clowns and watch those jokers laugh.”
“Tell your dreams to clowns and watch those jokers laugh.”
“The next time your in a conversation and you hear a so called “friend" of yours downing someone they associate with on a regular basis, reply, "Wow, the crazy part is this person thinks your their friend.”
“the world is beautiful if you think it is”
“The people who only value you by what you bring to the table, will leave you with the bill every time.”
“The people who only value you by what you bring to the table, will leave you with the bill every time.”
“Don't surround yourself with someone who doubts everything and talks down about everyone but accomplishes nothing at all.”
“Undesirable circumstances are the consequences of bad mistakes but life is full of change and decisions. Do not forget it only takes one person to make a decision to change the world. Living life in undesirable situations as time passes by is the result of regretting life itself and time never stops to fix our mistakes. Do not give up time for mistakes; instead make a change for you to prepare for the right decisions.”
“Hidden agendas are revealed in times of prosperity.”
“Hidden agendas are revealed in times of prosperity.”
“You can't change people but you can provide an alternative to how they see their life now.”
“The common idea that success spoils people by making them vain, egotistic, and
selfcomplacent is erroneous; on the contrary it makes them, for the most part,
humble, tolerant, and kind. Failure makes people bitter and cruel.”
“All of us are products of some sort of conditioning. If you don't like the way your life is panning out or if you can't get over that one hump, you must address what you need to change and work on it daily until it becomes a habit.”
“All of us are products of some sort of conditioning. If you don't like the way your life is panning out or if you can't get over that one hump, you must address what you need to change and work on it daily until it becomes a habit.”
“A person who is envious of you will still hang around you to learn and take from you. After all, they do want to be in your position.”
“A person who is envious of you will still hang around you to learn and take from you. After all, they do want to be in your position.”
“Be as productive as possible. Good seed requires consistency.”
“Be as productive as possible. Good seed requires consistency.”
“Friends don't compete with one another. Learn to share in each another’s joy.”
“Today, I am spending some quiet time with my calendar; making sure that I leave space for miracles to happen.”
“Your story will never be told correctly if your tale is only known by the Un-Godly. Avoid the scornful and pursue the light.”
“Your story will never be told correctly if your tale is only known by the Un-Godly. Avoid the scornful and pursue the light.”
“You would realize how good you had it, if God allowed you to see how many people were trying to take it from you.”
“There are several giants still named Goliath who have not yet a David. Just because David is small in size the giant will face God's amazing power of what David has within. Today, Lord I want you to show off every David that will knockout the Goliath's of this world. Show off that there are champions inside every little David.”
“If you’re a businessman or woman, you must go where the opportunities are. You can't flock, there must be a balance but don't lose your focus.”
“If you’re a businessman or woman, you must go where the opportunities are. You can't flock, there must be a balance but don't lose your focus.”
“Five years from now you will either laugh at these times or tear but you will remember what you did.”
“Five years from now you will either laugh at these times or tear but you will remember what you did.”
“No one can predict how far you will go in life but God has a funny way of giving them a hint.”
“No one can predict how far you will go in life but God has a funny way of giving them a hint.”
“Don't allow anyone to determine how far you can take your dreams.”
“Don't allow anyone to determine how far you can take your dreams.”
“Finding yourself is easy. Stepping out on faith is what troubles man.”
“Finding yourself is easy. Stepping out on faith is what troubles man.”
“Life will throw you curve balls, learn how to read the pitch.”
“just be good to me and i'll be the best to you”
“I don't believe that life is a gamble. I don't believe life is a roller coaster either. I believe we are spiritual beings with a purpose in a human experience and it’s our job to find it.”
“I don't believe that life is a gamble. I don't believe life is a roller coaster either. I believe we are spiritual beings with a purpose in a human experience and it’s our job to find it.”
“Your attitude sets the tone for your day.”
“Your attitude sets the tone for your day.”
“Take your goals to the next level by conquering the level your currently on.”
“Take your goals to the next level by conquering the level your currently on.”
“Always expect great things to come to people with a strong work ethic, faith and integrity. For their blessings are not in the hands of man.”
“When fear jumps at you from the outside get up, get over it, move forward and don't let it in your heart!”
“I've erased the word "Easy" from my vocabulary. Easy won't get you very far.”
“I've erased the word "Easy" from my vocabulary. Easy won't get you very far.”
“Create the right environment before you work on the future. There's nothing worst than walking through hell to get to Heaven.”
“Create the right environment before you work on the future. There's nothing worst than walking through hell to get to Heaven.”
“One of my greatest strategic partners has always been time. I know with time and hard work things will change. Use your time wisely.”
“One of my greatest strategic partners has always been time. I know with time and hard work things will change. Use your time wisely.”
“The more vocal people become about your blessing is a testament in its self.”
“Pay close attention to those you love, those that are in front of you, give them respect, give them love and you will experience one of the finest gifts we can receive.”
“A simple prayer can change your entire outlook on your day.”
“A simple prayer can change your entire outlook on your day.”
“Don't be afraid of being laughed at for failing. Fear being sixty-five years-old and never trying.”
“time doesn't change me. i change the time”
“I believe there is something great in this world for all of us.”
“I believe there is something great in this world for all of us.”
“Fear works just like faith. It controls your thoughts and actions.”
“Your mind, body and soul should be kept in patience, love, gentleness, and kindness to receive that which you are praying for.”
“It takes a real friend not to change their perception of you when God begins to bless you.”
“It takes a real friend not to change their perception of you when God begins to bless you.”
“How much you are willing to sacrifice will show up in the process and the end result.”
“How much you are willing to sacrifice will show up in the process and the end result.”
“The Revolution starts with you. You control the battle within.”
“The Revolution starts with you. You control the battle within.”
“Jesus was betrayed for 30 pieces of silver. What makes you think people today won't sell you out to further themselves?”
“Jesus was betrayed for 30 pieces of silver. What makes you think people today won't sell you out to further themselves?”
“You must change your ideals and values if you find yourself fighting the same battles year after year.”
“You must change your ideals and values if you find yourself fighting the same battles year after year.”
“Fear and doubt are not natural emotions. Fear and doubt are learned traits and behaviors. How did you learn them?”
“Let's be reminded of the beauty of a hug; it is a connection with another soul. Always embrace it knowing that there is no space or time in-between; be like children, love without measure and without fear. Your hugs transmit that energy of the ONE who created you; creating a moment of the example Jesus left to follow. Hold onto the moment of the smile and treasure it in your heart; make your day shine with love and care. I love you, with a hug.”
“Your life is a TEST-I-MONY, so don't focus so much on the TEST that you miss your MOMENT.”
“Your life is a TEST-I-MONY, so don't focus so much on the TEST that you miss your MOMENT.”
“Pursue a mentor. Everyday I see ambitious people being misguided by lost men and women.”
“take my life away...just give me what i long for”
“Focus on your objectives and base your decisions on a moral foundation.”
“Focus on your objectives and base your decisions on a moral foundation.”
“The body will grow alone but the mind requires maintenance daily.”
“The body will grow alone but the mind requires maintenance daily.”
“A mentality is a terrible thing to corrupt. Be attentive of what your mind consumes.”
“A mentality is a terrible thing to corrupt. Be attentive of what your mind consumes.”
“It’s about the “Big Picture.” Avoid people who think day-to-day in a small way.”
“It’s about the “Big Picture.” Avoid people who think day-to-day in a small way.”
“Be careful who you take advice from. People love when you fall for deception. Only a true friend will inspire you and stand by you in pursuing a prosperous life.”
“Be careful who you take advice from. People love when you fall for deception. Only a true friend will inspire you and stand by you in pursuing a prosperous life.”
“An opportunist is not your friend. Once the opportunity is no longer there or someone comes along that may take them further, there goes the bond.”
“An opportunist is not your friend. Once the opportunity is no longer there or someone comes along that may take them further, there goes the bond.”
“You can want the world for someone but if all they want is the bare minimum, they will do things to keep themselves there. The biggest factor to look for is the people they listen to over you. That's who they inspire to be like.”
“You can want the world for someone but if all they want is the bare minimum, they will do things to keep themselves there. The biggest factor to look for is the people they listen to over you. That's who they inspire to be like.”
“People who gave up on their dreams are coming for yours. Protect your dreams by moving in silence.”
“People who gave up on their dreams are coming for yours. Protect your dreams by moving in silence.”
“When you are complaining and gossiping all day, I bet 100 people are willing to listen. Wait until the conversation changes to goals, plans or ideas. You will lose the interest of most.”
“When you are complaining and gossiping all day, I bet 100 people are willing to listen. Wait until the conversation changes to goals, plans or ideas. You will lose the interest of most.”
“Money can't buy friends but it can buy people in large numbers.”
“Money can't buy friends but it can buy people in large numbers.”
“Never forget, small minds think alike as well.”
“Each one of the members of Christ will radiate a light of unconditional love for you.”
“The strongest people are those who don’t fear being alone.”
“The strongest people are those who don’t fear being alone.”
“Never allow negative words to hinder positive actions.”
“Never allow negative words to hinder positive actions.”
“A rainbow is not possible without a storm, similar to your success not being possible without adversity.”
“A community full of light and love will attract those lost in the dark.”
“The enemies of the great are the bad and the mediocre.”
“The enemies of the great are the bad and the mediocre.”
“You can't be around negative energy all day and expect to think positive; eventually the negativity will rub off on you.”
“You can't be around negative energy all day and expect to think positive; eventually the negativity will rub off on you.”
“Real family loves you for you. Real friends love you for all that you are. The streets will love you for what you do for them and nothing else.”
“Real family loves you for you. Real friends love you for all that you are. The streets will love you for what you do for them and nothing else.”
“People have hidden agendas but some only to help you.”
“Sometimes your trump cards are not going to help you..,but great triumphs are possible even with a mediocre.”
“Hard times expose your character and the character of everyone you depend on.”
“Hard times expose your character and the character of everyone you depend on.”
“The simple fact is people want help from who they want it from and chose to associate with whom they feel is best for them. You can be the only friend someone has in reality but if they're stuck on meaningless friendships with others its time that will show them, not you.”
“The simple fact is people want help from who they want it from and chose to associate with whom they feel is best for them. You can be the only friend someone has in reality but if they're stuck on meaningless friendships with others its time that will show them, not you.”
“If you’re my friend call me, let's straighten it out. If not, stay over there. Either way the sun will come out tomorrow.”
“If you’re my friend call me, let's straighten it out. If not, stay over there. Either way the sun will come out tomorrow.”
“Your frienemies stand close enough for you to see them but stand back just enough not to catch you if you fall.”
“Your frienemies stand close enough for you to see them but stand back just enough not to catch you if you fall.”
“No one can hold you down without physically restraining you.”
“No one can hold you down without physically restraining you.”
“You win some, you lose some, let Karma takes its course...”
“When they say it can't be done, don't let the weight of the World render you numb, be the beat of your own drum, go ahead and build it, they will come.”
“Would you prefer to drag through life for 100 years or live with excitement for 50?”
“Focus on what you want to achieve, and not what you are afraid of!”
“Live not for what you want, but what inspires you to achieve those wants.”
“If you are comfortable in life, you are not chasing your Dreams.”
“Wish not to walk in the footsteps of your neighbor, but instead, align yourself in the footsteps of God.”
“People that disrespect someone else’s dreams and ambitious character is like a shark! It is called negativity, and it bites every chance it gets.”
“Worries come and worries go…They challenge us and make us Grow!”
“The waste of life occasioned by trying to do too many things at once is appalling”
“In order to get high.... you have to go low”
“Innovation is my drug!!!”
“In order to see the light, you need to become the darkness first!!!!
Similarly, to see the darkness, one has to become the light!!!!
Both Statements are equally important.
1st tell's us how to get to the light and the 2nd one tell's how to avoid the darkness....!!!”
“The first virtue of all really great men is that they are sincere. They eradicate
hypocrisy from their hearts.”
“We just have to wait for the future to happen and technology to grow.....!!! and eventually we will be their!!!”
“ There is a difference between knowing the basics and being basic”
“Make in India, Make FOR India”
“It is very important to create a community within your home based on love and inspiration of God.”
“I don't want to see the flame of a candle in people's hearts; I want to see fire, God's love manifested in the peoples lives!”
“Every one has his own deserts to cross. Sometimes the journey is short, sometimes it's long. Deserts maybe a symbol of hardships, uncertainties and, perhaps, death. But believe that in every desert, there's an oasis, every desert has an end and every desert has a promise...”
“Live before the Journey is over, Live before it is too late. LIVE because you deserve to.”
“Nothing satisfies me more but learning.”
“Don't be angry at what you can't have.
Be angry about what you could have had, but you were too naive to achieve.”
“Quitters make excuses, committers make decisions!”
“Solution reigns for all problems in the arena where positivity flourishes.”
“On the road of life, a good friend helps to steer through the corners”
“Known for his gravelly voice and dominating presence on screen, he was perhaps most cherished among younger fans for playing deceptive hero Severus Snape in the Harry Potter films; a malicious, slithering and petty professor on the surface, but deep down driven by good. ‪#‎alanrickman”
“Messy hair, yoga pants, top knot, surviving on sticky kisses, messy smile and momsomania. They call me dragons MOM (Master of Multitasking). All I need is coffee and mascara.”
“And then she is pouring out liquid music of her voice and some plucking of guitar strings. “This one is for you, Ma,” she says and starts strumming her favorite song, and we blow kisses to her. The music takes my breath away. Today's good mood is sponsored by my kids.”
“Nerd has no gender. It’s just another word for expert.”
“As the old year retires and a new one is born, the last year's writings belong to last year's language, and this year's words await another voice.”
“Our reward for surviving holiday season, is new year.”
“Who gets to determine when the old ends, and the new begins? It’s not a day on a calendar, not a birthday, not a new year. It’s an event. Big or small. Something that changes us. Ideally, it gives us hope. New outlook, new outcomes. May the New Year bring you courage to break your resolutions early! A New Year, all things new!”
“It's not your heart that chooses what to love, it's you!”
“Hatred & evil can only be overcome with love & good,because opposite poles attract.”
“Negativity is like glue it will stick to whoever is around it”
“Ideas are the most powerful things in the world.”
“Your miracle isn’t focused on your past. It’s what you do today and tomorrow!”
“Everything is Temporary, Everything does not stay forever. One thing that will stay with you is GOD.”
“Be mindful of your thoughts and emotions for they will be the directions of all your purposes.”
“Rather than wasting time on yesterday that is gone, it is better to invest your time in tomorrow that is not yet born”
“If you choose to walk with someone, don't criticise them when they stumble”
“If you want to find-out the person who never leaves you during the hardship,Go to mirror and take a look”
“Allow the sun to shine on others, and you too will get a tan”
“The most experienced person is one who has faced SUCCESS and FAILURES throughout his life”
“Read as you taste fruit or savor wine, or enjoy friendship, love or life.”
“If I were to complain about complainers. Am I a culprit comparable conveyor? Let go of the anger. It’s crimping my colossal contentment.”
“It is easy to find the problem. Knowing the difference between critique and criticism is the solution. Condition your rawhide for growth. (Either way).”
“It is easy to find the problem. Knowing the difference between critique and criticism is the solution. Condition your rawhide for growth. (Either way).”
“Good friends are like old clothes; they may not look too good anymore, but they still fit you the best”
“The little things in life make a huge difference. Everything will add up in the end!”
“If your Life is full of Sorrow, then beg, steal, or borrow ENTHUSIASM from a great soul to make your Life whole.”
“There are no status among friends.”
“Help yourself by helping others”
“Words can heal, or sometime kill”
“It is neither home nor abroad,but the mind that has recognized its innate potentials that is the best.”
“Learn to treat your cook,house keeper,security guard & gardener as you will treat your own child,because tomorrow another destiny may unfold.”
“The power of Intuition is not magic, but pure logic for those who live with inspiration. -RVM”
“Life passeth swift; whatever needeth be done, let it be done today”
“A true friend is the greatest of all blessings. Lift the telephone and call someone you love, today.”
“Looking back on the last year. How much has the world given me? How little have I given to the world? How can I claim the world owes me anything?”
“If you choose to follow, shadow love.”
“In the year ahead there may be periods of darkness or despair. May all the good you have done or tried to do be your support in those days.”
“Think "how many people have made a contribution to my abundance today?"”
“Living in the Now we are all millionaires of time and it costs nothing at all to circulate the currency of kindness.”
“Notice how we all stand in a production line of possibility as opportunities for goodness pass in front of us.”
“Words; Handle with Care; Words can inspire, incite, encourage, discourage, excite, inflame, empower, destroy.”
“Happiness diminishes with excess”
““Commitments” are obviously made by people who can keep their word not like the losers who just keep promising… - Cocoy McCoy -”
“Once the “Commitments” are made, a promise is naturally kept… - Cocoy McCoy -”
“Promises not kept, plans which aren’t made are “Commitments” in fragments… - Cocoy McCoy -”
“There's a “Pleasure"of happiness
In every thing I really wanna do
When I find true happiness
In every thing I can do - Cocoy McCoy -”
“Be the rider of your life,not just only the passenger...”
“The acknowledgment of our weakness is the first step in repairing our loss.”
“Note takers are history makers!”
“Imperfect can be perfect, and perfect can be imperfect. You decide”
“If we can be Glad .........But we choose to be Sad, we are MAD! ! !”
“Even an early morning storm does not stop the birds from singing”
“GRACE
Is the dignity to expel the opinions and
breath and live like the breeze of a cold wind.”
“Love is a necessity and invaluable devotion, It unites, integrates us, and brings peace to earth.”
“God feels like the peace he never ceases.”
“Thanks for not believing in me,for your unbelief is the magic behind my new formidable beliefs.”
“Until you learn to think global,your fort shall remain your local domain.”
“Forget about the Past; Don't worry about the Future; Live Today!”
“Your humble background should never serve as a hindrance to your rising up,but it should serve as a checking device against any element of future pride that may arise after you may have risen to the top.”
“If you're not watching life can pass you up.”
“Plants are like people, if you don't take care the ones that are close to you they wither away.”
“self motivation determines the real fact of our
intellegence making life an easy goal to pursue what really
matters”
“If woman did not stand up for what they believed in woman would not have the right to vote today”
“Close your eyes. Listen to the birds. It's a new day. A new opportunity”
“When you know your future is bright,you will endure whatever circumstance the present has to offer.”
“The cover of every book is harder than it sheets, it's meant to protect its sheets. That should tell you that God covering you is harder than your enemies ”
“Please if you want to know what God has really done for you then stop comparing yourself to others and start comparing yourself to your past. Take an old picture and compare with your present picture. Please don't lose hope yet. Who knows how closer you are to your success. Keep on pressing a little.”
“When a goat is sweating, you won't know and he won't tell you. So stop broadcasting your suffering. You are not the only person in that fire. Someone would want to be like you.”
“It is better not to be born, than spending the rest of your life in eternal Lake of fire ”
“A thousand mile begin with a step indeed, but I tell you a mile to heaven doesn't begin with a step only. It also begins with deeds.”
“The lion, sleeping on the bare ground is never afraid of any animal... attacking it, because it's trust is not on the ground but on it's own strength .
Always believe in yourself That you can make it.”
“Even when it's cloudy, the sun is still shining. There is always light...”
“Never will a day occur twice, in your life. So stop letting one problem occur in your life each day. This day has never occurred on the surface of the earth before and never will it. Just use it wisely.”
“Tomorrow is always coming but never arrives. It arrives when it comes. Please use it wisely, because you might not see it again.”
“Life's not about talking a lot but doing a lot. A lot is not done, when you keep on doing more. Der to do more.”
“You are as strong as the faith you have in yourself.”
“Do what you like, but like what you do”
“Nothing is done until something good is done.”
“Life's a choice not a chance. So stop waiting for opportunities and make them yourself.”
“Free art lessons; Sunrise, and sunset”
“Enjoy the Bliss of just Being…Without being dependent on anything!”
“Easy way of becoming successful. If you don't respect yourself, try to respect your work and the kind of people you meet.”
“Redundancy: Attempting to justify failure as anything except giving up.”
“Redundancy: Attempting to justify failure as anything except giving up.”
“In life what you ASPIRE will TRANSPIRE—be it Loss or Gain, Sun or Rain, Joy or Pain.”
“What you seek in others, you are denying to yourself.”
“The way food is able to influence our talk, that's the same way money is able to influence our life. That's why our parents tells us not to talk when food is in our mouth. The same way we are to think before money tells us what to do.”
“Bad memories will give you a thousand yesterdays, but no tomorrows. Let them go”
“Those that reap bountifuly from the venture called tomorrow are only those that adequately prepare for it today.”
“World is small enough for one sky yet it seems there are different skies over different houses .”
“To make your prosperity live for ever,never abandon labour.”
“Christmas Day. A mirror; time to reflect”
“Right beneath the ground every human is threading upon are breakthrough resources,some may have to dig with manual tools,deeper & for longer periods to unearth theirs,while others may have to dig with mechanical tools,shallower & for shorter periods to unearth theirs.”
“The hardworker always get something good to eat before he sleeps.”
“Success is at the point you want to quit. Go a little further.”
“In the sea of life, each wave brings a new challenge”
“Be prepared,for life is a marathon race.”
“Today is a tomorrow that we thought about yesterday. Don't worry about tomorrow. Take care of today because if you take care of today tomorrow will take care of itself.”
“When a bullet leaves the gun, it will never return. So, don't let anybody to deprive you from what you get.”
“Who said it could not be done? And what great victories has he to his credit which qualify him to judge others accurately?”
“Ignorance is the teacher of many,for it teaches us to willingly forfeit the riches that is meant to come our way here on earth.”
“"Negative Thoughts" will never solve your problems; but surely they will cause a Big Loss...
"Positive Thoughts" may or may not solve your problems; but at least they will give you the direction to find out the Best Possible Solution...”
“The Attitude of Gratitude can raise your Altitude. Being Thankful is a magical way to reach the Top. -RVM”
“Like a thief in the night comes tomorrow & there in lies our opportunities.”
“For maximum impact,be prepared to stamp your feet,follow your unique path & create your own impact in this life.”
“Sometimes the best way to focus is not to focus at all.”
“When an idea for solving a problem suddenly presents itself, ask yourself if all circumstances related to the problem were properly analyzed.”
“I’ve learned that making a "living" is not the same thing as making a "life."”
“Be good if good is good enough for you, but to be great you must help make those around you better”
“If you want to have a strong structure, build the foundations the right way.”
“We judge ourselves with present things, but people judge us with the past.”
“Where there are friends there is wealth.”
“Perseverance conquers all”
“The warmth of the sun gently caressing your face, may well be the hand of God”
“A step at a time or within, makes the difference.”
“Commit to removing these toxic words from your vocabulary and accept challenges that will radically change your life and business!”
“No matter who you are there is something you can do better than any one else.”
“Don't try to show people who you are, let them see it for them selves.”
“vanity doesn't value foresight.”
“Dare to try something new. And when you do hit a wall or make a mistake, don’t blame anyone else.”
“You are, today, a result of your experiences of yesterday. Let them rise you up, higher and higher each day; high enough to touch the stars with your fingertips.”
“Some people need positive “vibes” today only to require more on the next day. Surrounding yourself with a positive environment may seem to be a good idea but is otherwise unrealistic. On the contrary, there are also some people who receive so much negativity that they have become impervious to it. Ironically, apathy towards the nature of negative situations has helped them achieve their goals. Daily challenges, which are often discouraging, have become their reason for staying motivated.”
“Some people need positive “vibes” today only to require more on the next day. Surrounding yourself with a positive environment may seem to be a good idea but is otherwise unrealistic. On the contrary, there are also some people who receive so much negativity that they have become impervious to it. Ironically, apathy towards the nature of negative situations has helped them achieve their goals. Daily challenges, which are often discouraging, have become their reason for staying motivated.”
“Some escape to LIVE. Some LIVE to escape.-RVM”
“A poor man with idea is nothing but a rich man.”
“Life is supposed to be free flowing,for the hold ups in life are simply caused by negative thinkers who don't believe in progress.”
“Your mind is your home. You create both, so you own it. So take control and create your imagination and make it beautiful .”
“No limits here,for the word limitation is an outlawed word in my territory.”
“When you block the progress of another,you are indirectly causing hold ups for all in life's journey.”
“The poor that knows the art of dreaming shall be made rich.”
“"You are your cover, and the message you deliver to the world will determine who decides to open your book. " Mariah MPX Prussia”
“The word Impossibility only exist in the island of the unbelieving.”
“Small-mindedness is extinguished through exploration.”
“When we aquire knowledge, we are strengthening our beings. We are sowing within ourselves the seeds of success that will, ultimately, blossom and influence another cycle.”
“There is a Universe residing inside of me working to see that I overcome the Universe.”
“Dare to try something new. And when you do hit a wall or make a mistake, don’t blame anyone else.”
“The world is as vast as the imagination.”
“Beliefs makes a unique way,where they say impossibility is the only way.”
“In order for one to succeed, one must first master the art of failure.”
“The words that you use in your marketing are a direct reflection of your business!”
“I Am a Christian and I Am Proud Of It”
“My weakest moment, when I thought I could not get any stronger”
“The light is a friend of the dark, sharing the world together. Light takes over in the day, while the dark takes over in the night. Each beautiful and unique.”
“Years have passed by. Hello turns into a kiss and then into sex. It is not love, because all i ever needed was a hug. A cigarette I have lighted up, while I watched the night and the hours passed by. Who am I, who am I going to be? I have no idea, but I will wait and see. God I am messed up, but I quess it is the part of growing up.”
“Stories are archives that have the tendency of renewing the heart of the next generation”
“Your purpose in life can be faulted if God is neglected”
“No integrity, nothing works”
“You can't add new activity on top of useless action!”
“Winners win only because they think of themselves as winners”
“When life gives you lemons, make them into lemonade. No matter how bad, it will give you the strength to smile.”
“The person that fears no death is the one worthy to live this life.”
“One must not give up on the first sign of a struggle, for giving up so easily is not the best thing for you, the most precious things in life usually come with a fight”
“In austere times,only those with austere spirit survive.”
“Don't lose today …for today is guaranteed but tomorrow is not.-RVM”
“Nothing is more healing than live music.”
“Solution reigns supreme to those who see solution as the only way.”
“Your passion is your word.”
“WHEN I LIED TO YOU I DIDN'T FEEL BAD FOR YOU. I FELT BAD THAT I WAS SO AFRAID OF WHAT YOU THOUGHT ABOUT ME THAT I LIED TO YOU ABOUT ME.”
“Always see your way through the storm, so you can see the beauty in the rainbow created”
“If I wanted a husband I could request a custom made one considering I personally know the one who creates all husbands, God.”
“It only takes patience to live through this life & witness the success that comes with old age.”
“When calmness takes over the morning as the sun rises, the song birds remind us how beautiful Mother Nature really is. Meditation is Love .”
“Hustle hard until your title is no longer gender-dependent.”
“Instead of trying to understand Life, we must live it. Create a reason to Live and progress on that path every day.-RVM”
“I laugh, I cry,
I smile, I get angry,
Sometimes I may feel
a little insecure,
But these are all signs that I'm alive”
“A land that is filled with milk & honey,but unfilled with labor will know nothing but serious lack.”
“The only pathway to your destruction is your ignorance.”
“Change your life today. Don't gamble on the future, act now, without delay.”
“You can’t live two lives. You have to be transparent!”
“It takes the ordinary to become an extra-ordinary.”
“It is better to believe in nothing but success,than to believe in other things without success.”
“'I wish' is a phrase which usually doesn't let you move forward.”
“The hard TRUTH is kind of like sawing off someone's shackled leg. Sure, it's going to hurt them at first and they might cry, become angry, dislike you, etc. but they'll respect and thank you in the long-run after realizing you didn't just stand by and let them suffer.”
“If you don't pulverize fear, it will pulverize you!”
“Never allow people with small minds to belittle your big dreams.”
“Information gives knowledge, Application is Wisdom.”
“When the inner Spirit has Liberation, Inspiration is born!”
“Intelligent person explains his success by saying his POSITIVES and "NEGATIVES". whereas an unintelligent person explains only his POSITIVES.”
“No one ever looses their self , just becomes successful pretending and forgetting to be their self”
“The biggest opportunity for light to have extreme impact is where there is extreme darkness.”
“Who can take me to the land called greatness? My beliefs.”
“Life's Irony;Sometimes in life to battle with the greater devil,one may have to partner with the lesser devil.”
“Look at yourself—Are your eyes Twinkling? Is your heart Dancing? Are your lips Smiling? If yes, then you are truly enjoying Life.”
“The quality of your life is dependent on what you KNOW and APPLY.”
“Never plan to make this world your permanent abode,for it is temporal for all,rather permanent your ideas & purpose here.”
“Our Opportunities lies in our abilities to identify them,when they come in beggarly ways.”
“Living at the cost of your dreams is like living the life of an unknown dead.”
“Champions are critical thinkers.”
“Right beneath the numerous sufferings in life lies the precious gift called success.”
“If your beliefs does not rescue you today,never hesitate to believe again tomorrow.”
“You are the creator of your own destination because YOU are The one following your dream, not anybody else.”
“Never be afraid to trust an unknown future to a known God.”
“There is no perfect photograph unless you're doing selfie.”
“I dare those whom say they can't, to simply try!”
“The hardest thing in life is to change from Being Dependent to Independent”
“THe beauty of life lies not in Wat we do,it lies in how we do it ,how we look at things.”
“People smile on the outside through the pain and suffering.
But if you would look at them closer, you would see they're boiling with pain and anger.”
“The sun always rises, rise with it, embrace all that is new, learn from all that was, and be present with all that is.”
“There's nothing in this world that's not channeled through a woman.”
“Taking care of our own is a given, but we all should strive to have a purpose of charitable /humanitarian work on a constant basis to balance out our life's journey.”
“You can always be better and you should strive to be better, ultimately we should
be better.”
“Experiences that teaches us should not be feared. It happens for a reason, we gain emotional strength and clarity even in the midst of pain.”
“The extra-ordinary secret to success is nothing but ordinary belief.”
“Giving your best n face death once for all is better than not working and facing death in pieces day by day.”
“The reason why it became so difficult to find a friend is YOU. Because nobody shines through the darkest of night the way you do.”
“HOW I FEEL. I DON'T FEEL LIKE YOU. I DON'T FEEL LIKE LISTENING TO YOU. I DON'T FEEL LIKE PRETENDING TO BE AROUND YOU. I DON'T FEEL LIKE GOSSIPING ABOUT YOU. I DON'T FEEL LIKE LOOKING AT YOU. HOW I FEEL, I FEEL LIKE PRAYING FOR YOU.”
“If you ignore your dream, it will die!”
“Feeling happy and blessed with my life right now. I know I have a purpose. Trials will surely come, but I have been crucified with Christ, and now I live. -CA, AL”
“Living Life without a Purpose is like having an Ice cream cone in your hand, letting it melt and drip without eating it. It was yours to Enjoy, but you lost it”
“The Best quote that inspires me every time is that God gives his hardest battles to his strongest soldiers”
“The main reason why world is so demolished is that bad people gave a 100 % to destroy it while Good ones proud themselves in giving 1% of what they can. Make sure you don't belong to either of the above.”
“Birthdays remind us the plan,purpose and promise that God has with us every year.”
“There will be no work hard for you if you will do Hard work”
“Enemies always help you to pick out your mistakes and weakness.”
“Every successful person has a own story”
“Today's dreamer should never be afraid of his dreams,because tomorrow will act as a mirror that will exhibit his dreams.”
“INTROSPECT. Dive deep into your own Life and think...Think..."How have I lived ?" "How can I make my Life better?" -RVM”
“Change is the key of success”
“When in crises situation,never mourn along with the crises,rather speak to the crises saying, "Crises what opportunities are you hiding for me.”
“Behind every problem in life lies a purpose.”
“You're strong so don't show everyone your weakness or they'll break you down using you as the weapon.”
“I guess the best thing I should do
Is to ignore the idiots like you
Who just try to bring my life down
Which isn’t worth my precious time - Cocoy McCoy -”
“One way of being an idiot is when you’re a loser, because successful people are the ones giving the less fortunate idiots who kept begging for more… - Cocoy McCoy -”
“Man never rises significantly in life because,most times he never dares to think beyond his present circumstance.”
““Bouncing Back” after failure is a step higher to being redirected to creating something better… - Cocoy McCoy -”
“Her sweet smile which makes the sun shine so bright
Her gorgeous eyes which bring the darker sides light
Her talent of expressing her creativity as mightily right
Her natural beauty which makes her a "Sweet Angel" alright - Cocoy McCoy -”
“An angel is the one who claims a devil but has a heart of an angel rather than the opposite... - Cocoy McCoy -”
“A prophet is without honor in his home,but the wise recognize & honors the prophet even in his home.”
“Seek first the kingdom & other things shall be yours simply means,seek first the good of others & your basket shall be filled with goodness.”
“If you make it a Habit to make your Today better than your Yesterday, then for sure, your Tomorrow will be better than your Today.”
“Since when does life mean truth, pain, reality, suffering? then they come to realize. It is too late to ask this question.”
“you are like the fries found in the bottom of the packet you might get unnoticed in the beginning but when they find you they are glad you were there!!”
“The only period where there is lesser competition for opportunities are during times of difficulties.”
“Life is too short, create!”
“Let's do this!”
“A detour along the way is necessary to once more realize the importance of that which one is pursuing.”
“Happiness is the sweet language that the blind can see and the wonderful song that the deaf can hear.”
“Happiness is the sweet language that the blind can see and the wonderful song that the deaf can hear.”
“Keep your eyes open for deer wandering into your headlights, otherwise, you will become the deer in the headlights.”
“It doesn't cost anything to pay attention.”
“It doesn't cost anything to pay attention.”
“The sky is the limit, once you learn to leave the nest.”
“The sky is the limit, once you learn to leave the nest.”
“Why be nice to someone? You and that someone have the same world to be happy in.”
“Why be nice to someone? You and that someone have the same world to be happy in.”
“You should apologize to yourself when you accomplish something that you first thought you could not accomplish.”
“You should apologize to yourself when you accomplish something that you first thought you could not accomplish.”
“Decide that you want it more than you're afraid of it.”
“I've realized that it's ok to not have a lot of friends for as long as you don't make a lot of enemies. That's what we call keeping the balance.”
“Those who get inspired by themselves are probably the most successful humans of the race ever !”
“Contentment is the foundation of true Happiness. The Happiness that comes from fulfilling desires can never be permanent.”
“You won't live life forever, but if you live life right, it will feel like an infinity.”
“When you fill life with mourning & complaints,your accomplishments will be a little lower than success.”
“The capacity to solve Life's problems is based on our abilities to learn to think above & not below the problems.”
“The magic of believing lies in believing.”
“Life is not given to us just to ZOOM from WOMB to the TOMB. Slow down... Enjoy the Journey! -RVM”
“The more you fail, the more you learn and the more successful you become”
“My status doesn't change who I am, but give me the vision to see things clearly and accept them for what they are. For God has blocked what mankind meant to destroy and bless me with what is meant to rebuild.”
“Wise men taste after the heart,but the foolish ones ponder over the face.”
“Life's Irony;Some will be made to see the light of opportunities only during crises period.”
“Try always to push toward your intuitions and forget the critics of negative thoughts least you become one.”
“Magic is hard to measure.”
“Doing what is right is often never easy, but it is always right.”
“If it feels right in your heart, it is right.”
“The seeds for your breakthrough lies inside your problems.”
“Life is not a Race, but we still continue the Chase and try to be an Ace. It’s time to get out of this Maze and Truly Live with Grace.”
“From every stumble, I've walked forward again. From every roadblock, I’ve found a new trail. For every doubt, I have found hope. And for every disappointment, I have found a way to move on... This is the story of a Guruu”
“You're the library of your dreams and the author of your book...”
“The Human mind is just a womb for choices”
“If at all you must be content in life,then be content at being the best.”
“The best news you can ever expect to hear in this life is the news of invitation to come & invest in an unproven idea.”
“Zeal without knowledge is fire without light.”
“We build our future on Earth but don’t live it here”
“We live in a perpetual now, where even a thought is in the past before it has finished and which can’t transcend the now because of the wall of time”
“Your past is your choices made, your present is made of choices and your future is shaped by both”
“Choices are like bullies, the more of them the tougher they seem”
“The irony is that we are busy doing many things that don’t matter and we have no time for things that do. Shouldn’t we reverse it?”
“"Vision is the future state you see, not the one you wish to see; it is certainly not an imagination, but a foresight. Vision is received, not perceived."
Dr Olu Olasode 2009”
“"A business ness model that is fundamentally flawed requires a surgeon, not a mechanic".
Dr Olu Olasode (2017)”
“"A business model that is fundamentally flawed requires a surgeon, not a mechanic."
Dr Olu Olasode (2016)”
“"Look behind you! If no one is following you, then you are at best an evangelist, but certainly not a leader".
Dr Olu Olasode (2015)”
“Your walls of Jericho can only be pulled down with your voice of faith.”
“Where there is an end, there is a beginning”
“Not all people take advantage of people or situations even when they're down on their luck. Some suck it up and live with it, with hopes that one day you'll have the heart to not be among the people causing pain.”
“How to defeat a Negative situation;By learning to view only the positive side of any negative situation.”
“Every thought we process in our minds represents two things to the subconscious;A question that will open a Pandora's box is being asked & A request is being made.”
“Have your own convictions. Believe in the laws of your conscience because if you believe in everything, you become nothing. -RVM”
“The rule seems to be that those who find no difficulty in deceiving themselves
are easily deceived by others. They are easily persuaded and led.”
“Play More, Pray More; Get More, Give More…Live More!”
“If you ask/know WHY you should provide for your family
then HOW you should will be easy”
“We can't change the world, but we can change its people.
But if the people is the world,technically you're changing the world ?”
“The poor, the unsuccessful, the unhappy, the unhealthy are the ones who use the word tomorrow the most”
“A man that has many friends will know no hunger.”
“The Sun, the Moon, the Stars, the Birds, the Animals, the Flowers, are all proof that a Universal Power exists.”
“It is more of a headache to find the right people to do jobs than it is to find jobs for people to do.”
“That has to be the most inspiring, phenomenal comeback I've ever seen.”
“" Your life is only worth; what you think its worth living for? What do you think?"
Dawayne A White”
“Your life can and will only be what your actions make it.”
“Don't try to live forever - You can't! But you can do things that will live forever.”
“The person who has never DEFEATED, can't understand one's problems.....!”
“Leadership is a series of trials, errors, and successes strung together by nerves, sweat, and tears.”
“True strength is a result of overcoming true weakness.”
“It’s a bet – the more you Give, the more you will Get.”
“You are not to be confused with show business but be all about Gods business, let him steal the show, you just be the vehicle by which he does it.”
“The artist in you respects the design of others, but you, without defeat focus on your own authenticity.”
“I choose to live with the positive side of life,so I choose to be positive.”
“Crises is the code that can open the gene of success for some.”
“Life is mystery & it requires people with mysterious beliefs to be able to benefit immensely from life.”
“Even one day lost in misery is a great loss, for the day will never come back again. You lose 24 hours of happiness, joy & bliss. Live each day in happiness.”
“I am drunk with Big GOALS and DREAMS”
“Life is not like a box of chocolates
When I buy a box of Toblerone I expect it to be Toblerone.”
“The solution to life's numerous challenges lies in absolutely believing the saying "All things are possible.”
“Where there is a will, there is a skill. Where there is a skill, there is a way”
“It's now or never and it's now forever”
“Far greater than all the material possessions that I possess, is my Freedom to Choose, my Freedom to Live, and my Freedom to be Happy.”
“"Finding the possibility to do the impossible makes you a genius ." - Paul E. Ehimen..”
“Determination and persistence are all you need to reach the sky.”
“Travel develops one’s awareness, and this reaches deep into the soul. It presents us with boundless opportunities to connect with others, and better still, ourselves.”
“Anyone can exist. Most fools do. It takes guts to truly Live.”
“God commands us to love one another as we love ourselves. That is what presents one of our greatest challenges, as many of us do not even know what it means to love ourselves. Therefore, abuse is inevitable!”
“If you did mistake by mistake it's not your mistake, but if you'll not try to
rectify that mistake it's definitely your biggest mistake”
“Our faith can only be empowered & activated by employing the simple force called work.”
“Crises is a period not to mourn but to restrategise for greater success.”
“We are not manifesting great things in life,because we have simply refused to dare belief.”
“Decide to be HAPPY when you start your day. Commit to put JOY in whatever comes your way. You may be hurt by what people say, but don’t let anyone spoil your Day.”
“Determination is not a result of success; determination is a result of failures. The more failures you encounter the more determined you are to succeed.”
“Information is king,for the whole world lies on the palm of the well informed person.”
“What is the Power that transcends one from Achievement to Fulfillment? The Power of Inspiration!”
“Even in the dark clouds, the sun still shines.”
“Today is the tomorrow of yesterday and will be the yesterday of tomorrow, therefore do good things so that you won't regret yesterday and make great tomorrow.”
“I once thought spoken words were strong until I discovered what writing words on paper truly possesses.”
“Great things can be achieved when synergy is the anthem.”
“Person can make mistake , but still be worth forgiveness”
“Why life is a bit static;Many are never too pleased or eager to see others rise.”
“The words we speak will definitely follow us into the future & hunt us either for good or for bad.”
“This life is a battlefield,so be battle ready with your dreams to make a lasting impact.”
“When life gets hard, just find water!”
“Never trust people who depends on you or who needs help from you. They will always say trust me i will be there for you, but it`s a lie. They deceive you to help them. They can`t be there for you. What they need is how to get what they want and after that they are gone.”
“The closest you are to a friend is like the far you are from the right path. Hardly can you tell a close friend he`s hurting your life. You always do things to either prove your love for them or you adjust to the kind of way they treat you. Your life is yours alone, so own it as such.”
“Life would always want to leave you behind, but try as much as possible to advance yourself with the same life that is trying to leave you behind.”
“No matter how good a person you are, there will alawys be someone criticizing you.”
“Quitters always lose and losers always quit.
Winners never quit and quitters never win.”
“I don't regret it when i see millions of likes for nasty things and just realizing i have 2 or 3 likes on a reasonable quote. But note, cheap things are easily attracted by many, and not the expensive ones.”
“People are like pistachios. Some of them open up easily, but there are others who need to be really broken to get into.”
“The risk of falling increases as the people scale to greater heights. But a wise man sees glory of height that fear of falling.”
“My dreams in the dark inspire my life in the light.”
“I'd rather be rich, than famous”
“Say these three words: I Love You. Time is so precious, don’t think it through. The payout is priceless and worth the view. Don’t wait till the ship sails and life bids you adieu.”
“I think, therefore I think I can”
“Reality is what your imagining right now”
“everything that you're going through is preparing you for what you asked for no one said that it would be easy we need to be pacient and strong to face our reality if we want to make a change we have to move forward what is for great important is to never say I can't”
“Be Grateful you are not like a rock that has no Choice. The Sun Shines on it, the Waves Splash at it. You have a Choice to move and to make your Dreams come true.”
“Success is at the point you want to quit. Quit not, make another effort to continue what you're trying to quit, than going to start all over again.”
“When you have money only you forget the world, but when you have no money. The world forget you.”
“Take care of your thoughts when you're alone and take care of your words when you're with people.”
“The longer you have to wait for something, the more you will appreciate it when it finally arrives.”
“Success doesn't know anyone except the hard-worker. So keep on working hard and you will be successful.”
“At the end of the tunnel called endurance cometh breakthrough unlimited.”
“There are no dead situations in life,only dead beliefs.”
“Speak less speak meaningful.”
“Shatter the smoking mirror of lies about you. There you’ll find the beauty of Gods mirror reflecting the truth about you.”
“Although there are many reasons to accept Jesus Christ as your Personal Savior. I find death from this world to Heaven to be the most important one.”
“I girl missed God in her own ignorance of nowhere. I Galvanized my egg into illegitimacy all while
unearthing my girl to optimize my momentum spirit of
wanting to be here.
My spirit wanted to be here, little girl, teenage girl, big girl, girl wanted to be here. Girl found God, Girl is woman to leave here.”
“We should always use our own moral perception,and reasoning of intellect to grow and understand why we do what we do.”
“Happiness is a shadow. If you chase it, it moves further away. But if you turn to make others happy, it will follow you. Make others Happy and be Happy.”
“Don't do things you wish or you like to do, but do things you need to do. NECESSITIES FIRST.”
“Where ever there is fire, there's smoke. Where ever there is a situation, there is a problem. The fire quench when water is poured on it, as well as the smoke. So just quench(solve) your situations, and your problems will quench as well. Stop running from your troubles.”
“Life is like a beautiful bird that comes to your hand. If you let it go, it will fly into the sky, never to return. -RVM”
“Dress like the way you want to be addressed.”
“Don't get tired when there is too much load on you, least you fall lazy. And when you fall lazy, you are likely to quit. Quitters never win, winners never quit.”
“The difference between a fool and a wise person: You will easily know when the fool is annoyed, but with the wise it's cool to let go. The fool just speaks like the way he feels(from his heart).”
“Cats beat dogs , doesn't mean all cats beat dogs. No condition is permanent. Your problems are not permanent, unless you make it so.”
“Right within the mind is the capacity to solve myriad of problems,but even though the mind is always with us, we hardly consult it or we greatly underrate it.”
“You must be willing to play with Failure before you reach Success.”
“There are two types of people in the world. Human beings and humans being something else.”
“Re-locating to find peace does nothing...if you do not have a peace of mind.”
“IT'S NOT WHAT WE LACK, RATHER HOW WE USE WHAT WE HAVE THAT DETERMINES HOW SUCCESSFUL WE BECOME IN LIFE.”
“TO BE SUCCESSFUL IN LIFE, THE BEST PLACE TO START FROM IS WHERE YOU ARE, WITH WHAT YOU HAVE.”
“TO SUCCESSFUL PEOPLE, GIVING UP ISN'T AN OPTION.”
““I just learnt yesterday that we were all from God and we are all living on Earth. So why the discrimination.””
“Even the Lizard always node it's head after falling from the highest building and this is what the Lizard says. "I FELL AND I DIDN'T DIE". You fall in life and you want to kill your self.” And this while the Lizard never stopped climbing buildings. Never quit in life.”
“Using imagination alone cannot make a dream to manifest,but discussing the dream with others as if it is already existing maketh dreams potent enough to see reality.”
“Push yourself past your comfort zone and watch as serendipity sings your song.”
“Say what you believe & believe what you say.”
“Dogs are dogs, and even they know loyalty”
“The only thing that belongs to us is our LIFE. Yet, we waste it in the pursuit of meaningless things that will never belong to us.”
“Let life be lived by those who are treated low by those who live lower than the lives lived by those who should've lived Higher!”
“The first thing I did before I started thinking about my future was to understand where I come from, and to know where I am going.”
“Negative situations can never overwhelm a positive mind.”
“You cannot Inspire anyone Until you are not inspired by yourself”
“If you have not learnt anything, but have learnt one thing that the Goal of life is to be Happy, you have learnt everything!”
“nobody robbed you if you didn't move on when the lesson was over”
“As Jesus is the Lord of our lives, the Holy Spirit is the Lord in our lives!”
“To procure solutions that will marvel you & the world,just think outside the box.”
“The great are not looking for meals to feed upon,but for visions that can feed the world.”
“Just like waves in the ocean come and go, no challenge is permanent. Problems will come and go too. We must enjoy the Challenges just like we enjoy the Waves.”
“The silence of God in all your battles doesnot mean defeat, it means fight the lord is with you."”
“The church pulpit is never the pastor's property for when he dies God still uses another on the same pulpit.”
“My biological mother knows me by name but my spiritual mother knows me by God's design purpose for my life”
“Ordinary minds can never value great dreams,because their mindsets have been locked unto the ordinary.”
“Nationalism separates us as we unite.”
“A virteous woman in love doesn't need to show her breasts in shirt or thighs in skirt but uses her wisdom to win a man's heart”
“Beauty comes from within,it shines bright inwardly with outer radiance”
“The best thing to live always for is what is ahead of everyone”
“The world is bigger than your vision, one must move around to be able to see different angles.”
“Keep the ones that push you forward and delete the ones that hold you back.”
“You must have the Will to over come the Matter!”
“Above all you have to remember to be true to you, then everything else will fall in line.”
“Don't think what your mind can do, think what YOU can do with it.”
“It is only after several failures that we realize true essence of success.”
“You need a reason to like, but no reason to love.”
“It doesn't matter how good or bad you are at a field till you are interested in it.”
“Try not to be the best but better than what you are right now, you know their is always a scope of improvement.”
“What is the word 'Best'. It is just like an upper limit to the range of a function.I don't think their is a need to move on the curve when you have whole of a sheet.”
“When you’re committed, a miracle will happen!”
“Man,His world & His dreams;Place man at the right spot & all his dreams will rightly make sense.”
“Learn to be Positive always. In pleasure or Pain, in Sun or Rain, in Loss or Gain, always be POSITIVE!- RVM”
“The windshield is always more exciting than the rear view mirror. Show me a man concentrated on the present and future and I'll show you a man who is on his way to make history.”
“The game of life, it is decided by the role of a dice in unknown hands. But the greatest players make their own luck.”
“Love is not what you see infront of you. But what you feel inside.”
“I WEAR FRIENDSHIP LIKE MY WORK CLOTHES. I TAKE THEM OFF AS SOON AS I GET HOME.”
“Life is not just about chasing millions. It’s about achieving happiness and finding fulfillment in what you do.-RVM”
“In moments of deep darkness,opportunities still exist for light to shine,but only a few can sense them.”
“The power of your determination coupled with your inspiration fueled by perspiration determines your destination”
“Friends are those closest to you when you feel the furthest from yourself.”
“Mind the input, what's your output”
“If you don't know where you are going. How can you expect to get there?”
“I refuse to live My life under the shadows of doubts and fears! For I know who I am and I know where I'm going!....”
“It is a truth to know what a friend we have in Jesus, but also to know what friends we have in Jesus.”
“With Inspiration, Liberation and Determination, you can reach any Destination.”
“Your destiny will never be achieved on easy street!”
“Your opponent, in the end, is never really the player on the other side of the net,
or the swimmer in the next lane, or the team on the other side of the field, or even
the bar you must high jump. Your opponent is yourself, your negative internal
voices, your level of determination.”
“Why destroy this Morn, by a Past that is dead & Gone and a Future not yet Born!”
“To taste the Success you should have courage to withstand failure.”
“Self acceptance is the best redemption.”
“Through the depths of hell my ambition still echoes in eternity.”
“If you can’t see your miracle, it’s because you’re looking with fear-filled eyes!”
“You choose who you are marketing to. You’re not fishing for just anyone. You choose them because you will be in business with them long-term!”
“Don't live a dull boring life. Spice it up. Have u realized that you wont live forever.-RVM”
“We don’t have the choice to hold a minute from passing, but we do have the Choice to make that moment magical.- RVM”
“Don't be afraid to kick up a little dust in life; be you through and through.”
“your beautiful never forget who you are because there is no one else like you”
“Even god needed light to see clearly”
“Time and again I have been tested to stand alone, that's because I can.”
“Scar is not reminder of the worst, but a proof that you survived the worst.”
“If God has called you, He will equip you!”
“Don't let fear keep you from reaching for the stars and grabbing hold of your dreams.”
“Those not afraid nor ashame to fail will eventually make success their friends.”
“Sleep is nature's inspirational pills that helps reawaken man's inspirational & hope botton.”
“Tranquility is a Choice. So is Anxiety. The entire world around us may be in Turmoil. But if we want to be Peaceful within, WE CAN.”
“only time ruins.”
“time ruins all.”
“Everyone can walk but it is the stones that you step on counts”
“Phronesis is a beautiful virtue, practise it and you shall reap the rewards…”
“Smile is the most beautiful and powerful crime.”
“Be bold.
Be brave.
Be unabashedly you.
And the best you that you give the world will be rewarded with the best the world has to give.”
“In this life sometimes things will become rough and hard to handle, but whatever is keeping us up, will always be stronger than what knocks us down.”
“Today, I will look around & enjoy all the beautiful things that are around me rather than yearn for things that are beyond my control & become miserable.”
“An execution is always more important than the idea.”
“Vast opportunities abound by just thinking big.”
“Living the life I choose is, to me, as important as breathing. Inhale, and gain a sense of adventure. Exhale, and sever any cords that hold you back - realize they were only strings to be broken.”
“Confidence is a key ingredient for supernatural miracles!”
“Confidence is a key ingredient for supernatural miracles!”
“The brightest stars shine when they've been in the dark.”
“Believing in God and trusting in him has giving me strength and peace. He has showed me things about myself I didn't know. He has open doors to such a new and wonderful journey in my life, he continues to open doors for me and showing me the things I could do!
                                           ~ Claudia ~
 ”
“Don't be to hard on yourself. Be proud and happy with yourself. Speak encouraging words to yourself, don't wait to hear it from someone, don't wait for that right moment. Let God be your encourager and  you will see  the person he made you to be.
                                      ~ Claudia~”
“Enthusiasm is a Power that can give Dreams to the Dreamless, Life to the Lifeless, and Hope to the Hopeless.”
“Do not block your dreams by allowing your fear to grow stronger than your faith.”
“Keep your excuses for bigger mistakes and make sure the time will never come when you need to use them!”
“Don't tell me what to do, tell me what not to do!”
“It seems to me you have two flaws, knowing I would. Wishing you could.”
“Friendship is like LV bags. You only get to know if it is real or not through the price you'll pay and the time you'll spend together.”
“"NEVER CLAIM TO HAVE DONE YOU BEST WHEN YOU DON'T EVEN KNOW WHAT YOUR BEST IS".”
“"NEVER HURRY IN LIFE; FOR THOSE WHO DO SO ONLY END UP DELAYING".”
“"IN LIFE, NEVER CLAIM YOU DESERVE WHAT YOU DIDN'T WORK FOR".”
“"HE WHO WANTS TO SUCCEED IN LIFE FOCUSES ON HIS GOALS NOT CHALLENGES; FOR HIS GOALS ARE BIGGER THAN HIS CHALLENGES".”
“Either light chases darkness or darkness chases light...”
“Life shall eventually end well if positive thinking influences our daily activities.”
“It takes two chopsticks to kill the hunger”
“To have found your dream of life is an achievement in itself bigger than chasing that dream.”
“My black beauty was invited to this celebration of life. Just in case you have a problem with me, ask me to ask you to leave.”
“Fire looks mean to some, but to me I see a perfect example of my love for you. My love is like fire with you being the only person with the water pail. You control these flames. Without you feeding the fire; I'd be nothing. This fire is strong.”
“What makes sense? Money makes cents.”
“What makes sense? Money makes cents.”
“Don't get something that will satisfy you for a moment, Do something that will make you happy for a lifetime”
“Always vote for principle, though you may vote alone.”
“My husband likes the smell of campfire but I don't, however I would eat it if it were a jellybean. So I submitted my idea to Jelly Belly who laughed when they said they have never had the flavor Campfire submitted to them before out of the thousands and I don't get any kind credit for it so now you know who it came from if they make it. #jellybellyflavoridea”
“Don't just Hurry, don't just Haste. Don't just Worry, don't just Waste. Life is a Treasure, Enjoy the Pleasure.”
“Praise to all that teach, share and help us grow.”
“You spend your TIME to make a DIME. You lose your HEALTH to make your WEALTH, but at the end it is FUNNY because you leave back all your MONEY.”
“We are the authors of our own adventures. Let's start writing our best stories!”
“"Live the life you love, pursue the passions you have, don't be afraid to fail, accept help and give back, no matter what you choose, enjoy the Journey, be brave, work hard, and don't look back." Marlon Ientz”
“Truth always prevails, as it packs the mightiest punch of them all!”
“Even in the smallest of packages comes the power of strength”
“Those who have the FREEDOM to Row can get to where they want to Go!”
“At the end of the day it is just that...the end of the day.”
“Implementation of a knowledge based economy is a significant precondition for environmental and social sustainability.”
“Spreading knowledge is very important for the future of humanity.”
“Be sure you've chosen a right way to live, and stick to it.”
“Oh! by the way, you'll die some day, so stop fooling around and get serious.”
“If birth is one end of the life, death is not the another end - Not living is!”
“"Knowledge is power and with it comes the possibility of achieving grandeur.”
“"Knowledge is power and with it comes the possibility of achieving grandeur.”
“Life is Won when you learn to run in the Sun and have Fun before Life is done.”
“"IN LIFE, YOU MAY SOMETIMES THINK SOMETHING IS YOUR ALL UNTIL YOU LOSE IT; ONLY THEN DO YOU REALIZE THAT THERE'S LIFE BEYOND IT".”
“Capture the moments, as it is less precious when you do not take a minute to appreciate it.”
“Choose your destiny, but, do be reminded of who granted you the opportunity. That's the Lord God Almighty.”
“Don't leave because he hurts you, leave because you value You!!!”
“In the city where the citizens are awake to their beliefs,success never sleeps.”
“Going through difficult times will only make the tough tougher & the feeble to perish.”
“At the gate of every failure lies success waiting patiently to express itself.”
“Positive & inspirational dreams,desires & Imagination are the working capital of the mind destined for greatness.”
“Not until your dreams begin like a dream,it may not have the potentials to become life.”
“In good lighting, everyone looks beautiful!”
“Because a bird jumped but did not fly, that does not put its ability to fly in question.”
“Work & success are best of friends,for without work success will be a mirage.”
“Look no further for resources are hiding behind the banner Called dreams.”
“The secret to letting others do the things you desire without grudge is by learning to treat them well.”
“Nothing in this world is right or wrong,its all about the attitude you perceive it ,either postive or negative.”
“Great Universe! I shall impact you in a formidable way in my lifetime,beginning from today.”
“Before I leave this world, I will set my footprint upon it.”
“The limit to your potential is proportionally influenced by the vastness of your imagination.”
“Magic will manifest itself once belief trumps over common sense.”
“Even with all the Lace, you can't be an Ace without God's grace.”
“Lose the fear of losing and You'll never Lose”
“.... ab©d ....”
“He is a true King who has the Freedom to do anything!”
“Sometimes you just have to press your way through the holding gate called frustration.”
“In itself, life is actually meaningless. It depends on us only what meaning we want to give to our lives.”
“You're either moving forward or you're NOT!”
“It really isn't fair, life. it's such a short thing. We live on a floating rock in the middle of the endless void of space and somebody expects me to waste my time here in debt, depression, learning things I'll never use, for a job I'll never have, to live a life I'll never get to”
“Some people make themselves miserable and everybody else miserable when they can rather make themselves happy and everybody else happy.”
“Impossible is nothing but a word you were taught”
“You take care of your tardiness
God will take care of your readiness”
“Our Life is like a Boat that can Float. Some Row and Go! Some Blink and Sink!!”
“Of course, things will go wrong. Move on! Don’t let the little snags affect the progress of your life.-RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎Stayinspired‬”
“Experience is failure in a positive direction”
“Everyday miracle begins with a positive mind.”
“The power to liberate an idea from the confines of uncertainty is by learning to declare it.”
“Don’t let other people’s opinions affect your record breaking results!”
“'Forgive everything, behind your forgiveness there's a big prosperity'_Fathima Sanna”
“'Your dream is a fetish to overcome every obstacle'_Fathima Sanna”
“One day without fun is one day lost forever”
“Never be afraid to build a bridge and take a walk on it.”
“No competitor can beat a passionate team”
“Most valuable things in live you can not buy”
“13C The Supreme Law”
“13© The Supreme law”
“Have you ever paused to be Grateful? For eyes to see, nose to smell, ears to hear, tongue to taste, hands to feel, head to think and heart to love?”
“Learn to be credited rather than debited”
“Pixel of Quantity makes the big picture of Quality”
“Few enterprises of great labor or hazard would be undertaken if we had not the
power of magnifying the advantages we expect from them."
Samuel Johnson
It's the repetition of affirmations that leads to belief. And once that belief
becomes a deep conviction, things begin to happen.”
“A* search for the certain puzzle that fits your mind. A certain quality out of matrix, an emerge of reality and divine. Persistent sustained look and fixed mind is the rebirth, the start of sanity, the start of rise.”
“Look around you.. What do you understand? A million billion composition of life itself. Don't you see the reason? Straw is not gold, up is not down, white is not black. A only equates to A.”
“We got to see the big picture out of life or else our future will be small.”
“We are not meant to be limited by circumstances,but we are meant to limit circumstances with our beliefs.”
“Life is no doubt a tough place to live in & only the tough dare to survive.”
“Those that dare not to dream big are cowards,for they fear to expose the already great potentials embedded inside of them.”
“LOVE is meant to make you Happy, not sad. What's the use of Love, if it makes you mad!”
“Optimism is essential to achievement and it is also the foundation of courage and true progress.”
“People who tell you that you cannot make a difference in this world are not negative people; they just don’t understand people who cannot tolerate all the woeful things surrounding them.”
“a beautiful sole is a beautiful soul.”
“Small keys open huge opportunities!”
“Small keys open huge opportunities!”
“The world is a mirror, so be what you want to see.”
“Get excited about life!”
“The dream is today folks, start living.”
“Shine so brightly, the world is left with no other choice but to see you as the greatness you truly are.”
“You can’t stay in a Blackberry mindset and become an Apple!”
“The Wind that Blows, the Water that Flows, the Sun that Glows, are all proof that a Power exists. Believe and Experience the Universal Power.”
“If you just keep moving, quitting becomes quite hard”
“All of this sites quotes cannot explain what i actually am feeling right now”
“One day earth will wipe us all out, but it will be impossible to wipe what we are going to leave here and that's what counts, the same goes for your impression on people”
“Two of my friends are very accurate at doing justice to something, they are as accurate as nothing could ever be, they taught me all the lessons of my life, oops sorry i forgot to name the bi- TIME AND KARMA”
“Don't Limit your feelings, just by saying 'I Love You'”
“The past ruins the present to destroy the future. Take charge of the NOW.”
“Possibilities reigns in an atmosphere where the folk called the Impossible belief is befriended.”
“If you see something wrong, and you know it is wrong, and you see others believing it as a truth, then please DO say it is wrong. You will get hated sometimes, or even be blocked, but it's better than being part of the wrong.”
“Man is a limited being,but if he Learns to tap from the subconscious realm he becomes the Unlimited being.”
“If humans did whatever they felt, then, and only then, human nature would be exposed.”
“For ordinary humans, someone crazy is highlighting, for ordinary crazy, someone human is highlighting. Is being ordinary, ordinary?”
“The wise loves to give,but the fool gives to love.”
“No matter how deep a wound may appear today,it's sure going to get healed someday.”
“In the pursuit of acquiring Treasures, we lose the ONE treasure that we truly possess—Life. Let us not lose Life in the wild pursuit of other things.”
“We're all sentient, conscious to the last”
“Don't have fear if you haven't tried!”
“Introspect. Dive deep into your own Life and think . . .. Think . . . “How have I lived?” “How can I make my Life better?””
“The Journey Ahead is Journey Unknown ; Only Faith can help you Strive.”
“The light of the night is up the sky.”
“I crave a love so deep that the ocean would be jealous but you were too blind to see the worth of my love towards you so I decided to move on like waves do and keep my heart as beautiful as the ocean”
“Anything can happen in this world. It is a crazy place, but as long as we have each other we can overcome anything life throws at us. Just have to believe in ourselves and keep moving forward.”
“Just because you have problems, it doesn’t mean you should not have Dreams. Instead, let your Dreams become the scheme to solve your problems.”
“The Word Love Has Been So Watered Down. It's Nothing More A Controversy On What Burning Forest It Should Be Thrown On.”
“'Intellectual path' is one amongst that illumines your journey from the unknown to the known. To arrive so requires an inquisitive mind for the quest of knowledge proper. Now learn at your best for in need will quench your thirst.”
“Learn to surrender, because sometimes, when there is no way, surrender is the way.”
“"Professionalism" is all that what matters!”
“Love isn't an emotion or an instinct--it's an art.”
“If your words or actions will not result in something positive then you should not speak or act.”
“Let us not become so busy making a living that we forget to enjoy our Life. Every day of Life is meant to be Lived and Enjoyed.”
“Limitation is only a mindset, which can be conquered in time”
“It's simpler to live in a mindset of moving forward, than in a mindset of procrastination!”
“It's simpler to live in a mindset of moving forward, than in a mindset of procrastination!”
“Give thanks to the tree that feeds you, knowing that when ripe, you will be able to feed others.”
“Make TODAY so beautiful that your YESTERDAY is something you will smile about TOMORROW.”
“Persistence is the code that can help unravel breakthrough.”
“People are killed every day in their career, business or life because they love to stay in their comfort zone.”
“Life can be a strange yet wonderful experience to live, if only you learn to enjoy it more”
“Life Is Smooth If You Live It But Hard If You Regret It.”
“Until we learn to work like the broom,our individual works may amount to nothing.”
“"YOU MAY BE WEAK AT SOMETHING, BUT DO NOT GIVE UP DOING IT, PRESS ON; FOR WITH PERSISTENCE, SUCCESS IS GUARANTEED".”
“In life, we must first learn to crawl, then stand, then walk, then run, and only then, fly. We cannot crawl into flying.”
“Everyone holds fire in their heart; All you ever need to do is to unleash that fire and let the whole world know your true potential.”
“To build the paradise you desire in life,learn to look inward & not outward.”
“When Passion meets Inspiration, an Obsession is born.”
“A man without vision is like a bow without an arrow”
“Marketers are focused and sales people are scattered!”
“Success can truly be ours for life,if we truly believe in success.”
“A Determined Mind Remains Ignorant Of Defeat”
“When you think of quitting, remember why you started!”
“When you think of quitting, remember why you started!”
“The greatest and most courageous thing for you to do sometimes is nothing”
“Three are the Peaks that everyone Seeks: Achievement, Fulfillment and Enlightenment.”
“"BELIEVING IN YOURSELF IS SOMETHING NO ONE ELSE DOES FOR YOU BETTER THAN YOURSELF".”
“Expect the unexpected. Cry when you’re down. Thank those who make you successful.”
“I HAVE LEARNT THAT IN LIFE, WE SHOULD NEVER LOSE HOPE ALBEIT IMPOSSIBILITY SEEMS TO BE THE ONLY POSSIBILITY; FOR BEYOND HOPE, WE HAVE NOTHING TO LOSE.”
“THE CHALLENGES I FACE IN LIFE COMPEL ME TO PRAISE GOD EVEN MORE; FOR THEY ARE INDICATORS THAT HE WANTS TO PROMOTE ME, IF ONLY I CAN ACCORD HIM MY UNCOMPROMISING ALLEGIANCE AND COMPLIANCE,”
“Failure is a gift. It pushes you to confront the truth.”
“Expect the unexpected. Cry when you’re down. Thank those who make you successful.”
“Good things come to those who wait”
“Beauty beats talent...but not for long time.”
“I'll reach the heights where i could afford to gift you a Lamborghini, You try to reach the heights where you'll just be able to maintain it.”
“Even when there is only a 1% chance for success, you have to put in 110% of the work to make that last 99% happen.”
“Someone else's words can detour your potential!”
“The power of your determination coupled with your inspiration fueled by perspiration determines your destination”
“You don't need someone to tell you that you're a dreamer but you need the fruits of your dreams to let you know that you have expertise in the dreaming craft.”
“You can't lead by memo. Leadership is a contact sport, eyeball to eyeball, on the
field with the sound of the contest in your ears. Most everything else is noise
from the grandstand.”
“I'm not the victim in my circumstance. I'm victimizing my circumstances through praise and worship.”
“I'm so relevant to you, without me you wouldn't have nothing to talk about.”
“I'm not trying to get along with anyone. I just learned how to get along with myself.”
“Sometimes my steps are so small that I seem to be standing still, but yet I keep moving forward.”
“"Shimmer like a Star"----all could see it glittering amidst the sky......yet none succeeded to reach it.”
“Strew seeds like a 'Herculean task' and let the Harvest elucidate exuberance.”
“Each of us represents " I am " as a person. - Paul E. Ehimen”
“To Take Risk Is My "Illusion"
To Come Over It, Is My "Obsession".”
“Depression is a 'Miasma' which nethers your self-assurance.”
“Learn to Motivate your own Willpower on behalf of Withholding it.”
“Patience,Perfection,Perseverance,Positiveness"-------Keys to 'Success'.”
“A TRUE HERO IS ONE WHO CAN SEE THROUGH FEAR AND CAN OVER COME ANY CHALLENGE WITH FAITH”
“'Labour' without Toil is like 'Sequel' without Earnings.”
“No party greater than the party in my head.....”
“I wouldn't find my quotes inspirational, however, I would surmise, that they are recreational....”
“There are people who Dream and there are people who Scream. There are people who Cry and there are people who Fly. The good news is that this is a CHOICE!”
“Be a man of 'Spunk' not a man of 'Wrangle'.”
“soul is the official manager of mind mapping”
“While a rich man cannot have more than 1440 minutes a day, a clever man makes more time by using OPM or Other People's Minutes.”
“Let's not be Wrapped and Obscured beneath the Sand.turn out,dust Yourself and Forge Ahead and let the Cosmos recognize how Sandy We are.....”
“I don't know how many Epochs I am going to Lose out,how many Mountains I am going to Escalate and where My Karma will lead---yet I will abide to my instincts and as a beam I will pass through the Canopy of the Darkest Forest.....”
“Never refuse to Tread a Path that is the Darkest because just before the Dawn,the Sky is Dark.”
“Determination can change destination”
“Strive to become a better version of yourself because no ideal is ideal enough for you”
“Don't dwell on your fears, focus on the now”
“You don't judge a tree by the name it Wears, you judge a tree by the fruit it Bears.”
“The greatest discovery of all man kind is the discovery of self.,”
“Follow your heart. Avoid the crowd. Believe your dreams are worth all the effort.”
“Gloomy ones must learn to light the Fire of Inspiration – the Spark that will clear the Dark within.”
“McDonald Trump”
“HE WHO IS DISHONEST WITH HIMSELF CAN HARDLY BE HONEST WITH OTHERS”
“THOSE WHO RUN AWAY FROM THEIR PROBLEMS AT THE SAME TIME UNCONSCIOUSLY RUN AWAY FROM THEIR SOLUTIONS”
“Believe what you see.
Consider what you hear.
Know what you speak.”
“Let them hate you, for it bothers them more than you.”
“As your life approaches its end and you look back, wouldn’t it be wonderful to know it was worth downloading.”
“The super-rich are demigods... and they employ demagogues to keep it that way”
“In the right lighting, everyone looks beautiful!”
“At the end, its only you; so be strong and love yourself.”
“Doing things on your own is the Number 1 priority of INDEPENDENCY.”
“A Dream leads to a plan.
A Plan leads to an Aim.
An Aim leads to a Goal.
A Goal is what makes you Independent.
Become A Dream Chaser Not A Dream Waster.”
“My life isn't as easy as yours, as much as you see me smile i just have to do what i have to do to embrace my happiness to make the world see whats within me.”
“Consider your enemies as your best friends because they are the best guiders in life..”
“I don't believe in the word "Force" I believe in the word "Push". I push myself to gain my "Accomplishments" to move on to a next "Level". That's what i think you should be considering about in your next "Considerations"”
“Developing self motivation helps you to:
Be Courageous
Think Wisely
Bring joy within oneself and
Most of all helps to develop a mode of Becoming Independent.”
“The soulful recognition of God's goodness awakens our imagination to ask, "What else is possible?"”
“Those who say – “I need Motivation” will never create Inspiration that will take them to their Destination.”
“Always carry with love to share because no one wants complaints..!”
“If happiness always depended on what we had, then the richest would always be Glad, not Sad.”
“Generating New Ideas is 'Creativity', generating power in Creativity is 'Innovation', implementing innovation is 'Research' and making it open to all is called 'Open-nova'.”
“Every dawn, brings new things.”
“The beauty of the forest from afar conceals the ferocious beasts and slithering poisonous creatures it nurtures within it.”
“Follow your heart. Avoid the crowd. Believe your dreams are worth all the effort.”
“Inspiration creates a never-ending Power that makes you go on and on and on and on!”
“It takes dreams to overtake & subdue the world of turbulence,uncertainty & poverty.”
“If your thoughts are too poor,they may be too poor to make you rich.”
“God has provided us with an opportunity to experience this wonderful journey called LIFE.... So thank God and live life to the fullest - one day at a time....”
“In order to move ahead in life we must learn to let go of all those things which doesn't belong to us. By doing so we open the door to self-realisation.”
“Imagination is activating the SIM card of your super conscious.”
“Truth be told, albeit hard to believe, it is your true love; so go ahead, close your eyes and kiss hardship on the lips.”
“You will always encounter those who attempt to diminish your light. What they don't realize is their wind can not extinguish a powerful flame, it brightens it. Shine bright”
“You have the choice, to be a FAN or FAMOUS.”
“The Mind can think only one thought at a time. If your mind is occupied by a meaningless thought, you block a meaningful thought from entering it.”
“Copy is a worry”
“Problems are everywhere, so are Solutions. Unfortunately, we see more of the Problems than the Solutions.”
“Dont Be Changed, Be The Change”
“Some people find life boring, there’s too much time. Few find Life so exciting that there’s no time at all and Life just zooms by.”
“Yes I am married, to my bachelor life.”
“Today we write a brand new chapter. The story so precious, you play the actor. The scripts unwritten, each act’s a factor. How do you want to be known ever after?”
“Let your heart do the speaking, the pen do the writing, and the paper do the catching”
“Let your heart be the guide”
“Let your heart choose the path and god will guide you”
“Life is like a dream, it's what you make of it and what you do with it that's what counts.”
“Be thankful that you are on your feet. There are people who can't even walk down the street.”
“Inspire Others, You Never Know What Flame You Will Ignite”
“Quitters quit, decision makers move on!”
“There is no other way to judge the work of a mind except through its words.”
“Those who grow Tall by giving it their All, without the worry of Fall, are powered by a Passion, that is born from Inspiration.”
“Weaken your weaknesses, strengthen your strengths and then see the result.”
“Some people emit negative fumes, while others vibrate POSITIVE ENERGY. Stay close to the Positive ones; otherwise you will be smoked to death.”
“YOU WILL HARDLY EVER SUCCEED IN ANYTHING YOU AREN'T PASSIONATE ABOUT”
“Never worry about the Past, it brings Tears. Don’t think too much about the Future, it brings Fears. Live in the Present Moment with a Smile, it brings Cheers!!”
“We free our minds, when we escape the bubble of traditional thinking”
“I live in a small town, but I have big ideas!”
“When you stop questioning things around you, only then do you really start to age”
“We free our minds, when we escape the bubble of traditional thinking”
“I live in a small town, but I have big ideas!”
“When you stop questioning things around you, only then do you really start to age”
“Dreaming is a way to realize your dreams”
“Act now! For procrastination, as with rust, insidiously corrodes even the most iron hard determination.”
“When we want to see change, nothing happens, it's only when we change our perspective change occurs.”
“Of what use is your Wealth and Kingdom if you don't have the Liberation and Freedom to Be what you want to Be.”
“Ready...steady...go chase your dreams!”
“Ready...steady...go chase your dreams!”
“Strive to be someone who embraces all the flavours life has to offer”
“Strive to be someone who embraces all the flavours life has to offer”
“Think of Today, not Tomorrow. It’s time to be Happy, not live a Life of Sorrow. Find out those things that make you Glad & eliminate those that make you Sad.”
“IF YOU NOT DO ANYTHING ON RIGHT TIME, YOU CAN’T DO THAT LATER AS PERFECT AS BEFORE”
“Keep making pretty music on the inside, even when you feel like you’re dying on the outside.”
“When someone hurts you without any reason,give them reason to realize your worth through giving back"The jerk"”
““ A successful businessman doesn’t wait for things to happen, He makes them happen ””
“Confused by the mind and diffused by the senses, we seek Pleasure and lose the great Treasure called Life.”
“Make decisions, not excuses!”
“A rainbow in the sky or a bird that can fly often create Joy that money can't buy!”
“Some people don't Think; they blink and sink! TAKE CHARGE and LIVE!”
“No matter how smart and able you are, one mustn't trade benevolence for anything. Even if you lack the smarts, be a good person.”
“No matter how smart and able you are, one mustn't trade benevolence for anything. Even if you lack the smarts, be a good person.”
“Even if you lack the smarts, be a good person.”
“Sometimes ignorance can be the best knowledge.”
“You can do anything you want as long as you dream it”
“sometimes obsession can be the key to inspiration.”
“No matter how high and far your urine goes ahead of you, the last drop still falls under your feet. That's how God has made your enemies. What ever they do or plan, any length they go, the final place is under your feet. They will come confessing. If only you are able to stand firm in your problems.”
“When people decide to write love quotes and you decide to write inspirational quotes.... They criticize.”
“Try to please your maker (God) and not a faker.”
“If you don't cherish the little things people do in your life, don't expect the big things from anyone. Because small small makes something big.”
“Making money may give a sense of Achievement. But making a difference will give a sense of Fulfillment.-RVM #Inspiration #Stayinspired”
“Success never sleeps,its always awake to the one with active beliefs.”
“The opportunity for our uplifting are during times of great depression.”
“Real success is succeeding & also making others to succeed.”
“We can't continue to dwell on poverty & lack & expect prosperity to abound.”
“Man's problems in life is never poverty,but poor thoughts.”
“I believe , i equally belongs to every single country in this world.”
“Feeding a hungry and saving a child in need is the best deed”
“True happiness lies in finding the inner peace, which one can achieve by daily practice of meditation”
“Live without regrets. Apologize when you’re wrong. Stop complaining when things aren’t fair.”
“Those very early mornings gives me the best thoughts of my life”
“Rather searching for the right person, Be the right person,
At least someone’s search will be over when they meet you.”
“Never stop yourself from expressing your feelings to the ones you love.
You never know, Your words might change their life or might give them a new life.”
“Time changes nothing, It just alter your memories. It creates a new layer of images over the old ones,
which are enough to cover it up.”
“With a strong faith, there is a guarantee of faithful love”
“Tomorrow is just another today, so spend every today like there is no tomorrow.”
“When we let our GREED become our NEED, we can never be HAPPY indeed!”
“Accepting the obstacles to overcome is a halfway victory.”
“One who pursues happiness never finds peace. One who finds peace is pursued by happiness.”
“Strut your confidence, not your arrogance.”
“Simply perform by being present in the moment. Life is your audience, be alive!”
“An unclear vision is overcome by clear intuition.”
“Patience is a tool. If you know how to use it, you'll never make a fool.”
“A close relation with the self enhances the quality of life.”
“Blessed are those who acknowledge their blessings.”
“You have to be ECSTATIC about the benefits that your product brings to your consumer. Your energy and enthusiasm have to be fed to your consumer!”
“Problems are like Balloons. We let them unnecessarily blow up.”
“DISAPPOINTMENT ALWAYS RESULTS WHEN YOU DON'T MEET YOUR EXPECTATIONS IN LIFE.”
“WHEN SOMEONE ISN'T WILLING TO DO SOMETHING, THEN HE HASN'T FOUND A STRONG REASON TO DO IT”
“BELIEVE IN YOURSELF ALWAYS; FOR NO ONE ELSE CAN EVER DO THAT FOR YOU BETTER THAN YOURSELF”
“YOU DON'T HAVE TO BE THE BEST AT SOMETHING IN ORDER TO HELP SOMEONE IN IT; YOU ONLY HAVE TO BE WILLING TO HELP”
“SOMETIMES YOU HAVE TO DO SOMETHING NOT BECAUSE YOU WANT TO; BUT BECAUSE YOU HAVE TO”
“YOU NEEDN'T TELL SOMEONE HOW WISE YOU ARE; FOR WISDOM SPEAKS FOR ITSELF”
“Stand tall like apostle Paul, get the cross on your back man let's go”
“Be a master of your silence”
“Live without regrets. Apologize when you’re wrong. Stop complaining when things aren’t fair.”
“FAILURES easily get tired in the middle of the dark road, look back and start counting their footsteps, but PLANNERS are somnambulant, they journey until it dawns!”
“I represent God till the day I die, got my flag up high in the sky. Look into my eyes no lie, you go hard in the paint but I go hard for Christ”
“yes, black lives matter... thug life doesn't matter.”
“If the destination is Peace, then the road is Love and the vehicle is Compassion.”
“Start every day with the courage to begin again.”
“Draw me close to you, teach me to be like you. When people look at me I want them to see you”
“Don't just follow the Herd. Be like a Bird. Open your wings and Fly high in the Sky!-RVM #Inspiration #Stayinspired #Fly”
“It's been said that nothing can stop an idea whose time has come...but it's also equally important to understand that if the timing of such an idea is not yet, it can be very damaging.”
“If you can’t breathe, you likely won’t care what your stock portfolio is doing... You will only care about your next breath!”
“Go the extra mile. Than go a thousand more. No warrior ever conquered just doing the bare minimum.”
“NEVER PERMIT DISCOURAGEMENT IN LIFE; REMEMBER MOST PEOPLE ALWAYS TEND TO DISCOURAGE OTHERS FROM WHAT THEY HAVEN'T EVEN TRIED”
“DO NOT ALWAYS WORK TO BE APPRECIATED; BUT TO APPRECIATE OTHERS”
“DO NOT DESPISE THE SOCIETY BECAUSE YOU ARE LITERATE; REMEMBER IT'S THE ONE THAT SENT YOU TO SCHOOL”
“I am unconcerned with what yesterday has left behind, but only with what tomorrow will bring.”
“Scales are tipped with sweat from hard work”
“No one is born with Positive Passion. This Power is ignited by Inspiration!”
“Best way to learn is not to learn”
“make no claim to heaven.... God hates pride.”
“Trying your best is doing your best.”
“Life is like bowling trying our best to knock them all down. When something is left over we do all we can to knock them down.”
“When you show me that you know something, then i will show you that i don't know anything.”
“There is Nothing I will not Understand in Time , It Just Takes a Little Time To Understand.”
“before the door closes.... make sure you have a key!”
“before the door closes.... make sure you have the key!”
“Very often, we let little things spoil some of our most important treasures—our Moment, our Day, our Life.”
“The most important things are scariest when they live in your head. When you open your mouth and speak them, you discover how brave you are.”
“Stay silent, and let the Action do the talking”
“A Dream is a vision not played out yet”
“Those who have evil in their minds fear the judgement of heaven.”
“Lord take me as I am just the way I am. Set my soul ablaze, never quench the flame”
“NOT UNTIL YOU LOSE WHAT YOU CONSIDER TO BE WORTHLESS WILL YOU REALIZE HOW VALUABLE IT IS.”
“YOU MUST FIRST DEFINE WHAT YOU WANT IN LIFE; THEN WORK HARD TO ACHIEVE IT AT ANY COST.”
“NEVER DO SOMETHING JUST BECAUSE OTHERS ARE DOING IT, HAVE YOUR OWN REASONS; FOR YOUR FATE MIGHT BE DIFFERENT FROM THEIRS.”
“FOR WHAT YOU WANT TO BECOME IN LIFE, YOU MUST PAY THE PRICE.”
“IN THE PURSUIT OF YOUR DREAM, SOME PEOPLE WILL ALWAYS LAUGH AT YOU; HOWEVER THAT SHOULDN’T DISCOURAGE YOU BUT CAUSE YOU TO WORK EVEN HARDER TO ACHIEVE IT.”
“WHENEVER YOU DON’T KNOW WHAT YOU WANT IN LIFE, YOU WILL NEVER BE CONTENTED WITH WHATEVER YOU HAVE.”
“Education on whole makes a person diamond from coal”
“You want change? Be the change that mankind needs”
“If you are good I am saint and if you are bad I am a devil.”
“Today’s happiness depends on yesterday’s choice, just as today’s choice will determine tomorrow’s happiness.”
“WE DON'T SUCCEED BY WISHING; BUT BY WORKING HARD.”
“HE WHO WRITES MORE THAN HE READS NEVER MAKES A GREAT WRITER.”
“When you don’t know what to think, Think Love!
When you don’t know what to say, Speak Love!
When you don’t know what to do, Do Love!”
“Do what others won't do today, so that tomorrow you can do what others can't.”
“Work so hard that until one day, your signature becomes an autograph.”
“There can be no Positive result from a Negative attitude. Think Positive. Live Positive.”
“Everyday you go deep down into poverty,there is always a new found wealth to unearth.”
“The world is ours for the taking if only we can dare to dream.”
“If you paint what you love, you'll love what you paint.”
“When you pull the curtain down in your own show you'll see the majority of people who were paying their precious time to be entertained by you were nothing more than barriers to keep you playing the same show over and over again.”
“Like a lit candle, may your love always continue to be a flame.”
“Depression is like a cloud in the sky. It is not a state of being... It is a cloud that passes by.”
“TIME IS MONEY
If time is timeless then money has no value.
If life is endless then life is timeless.
If there is eternal life…then money has not value.”
“You can Live in your Cave OR Dance to your Grave.”
“ALWAYS VALUE WHAT YOU HAVE AND LAY HOLD OF IT; FOR YOU MIGHT NEVER GET IT AGAIN AFTER LOSING IT.”
“WHEN GOD BRINGS SOMEONE INTO YOUR LIFE, TO KEEP THEM IS YOUR RESPONSIBILITY.”
“ALL IS WELL WITH THE BODY ONLY WHEN ALL IS WELL WITH THE MIND; FOR THE BODY FOLLOWS THE DIRECTION OF THE MIND.”
“Go the extra mile. Than go a thousand more. No warrior ever conquered just doing the bare minimum.”
“I kept working and working, putting everything I had into it. Before long, I looked and found that I had bumped right into it.”
“Medicine might not be the right word, but laughter is the best.”
“In life the most revered is God yet man never shuns from wronging him..as man people will always wrong you so forgive and make peace for life is short.”
“Love is not consolation. It is light.”
“YOUR DREAM IS SO PRECIOUS TO YOU THAT YOU SHOULDN'T ALLOW YOUR CHALLENGES TO KILL IT.”
“With love and patience, nothing is impossible.”
“A MISTAKE IS A MISTAKE ONLY WHEN WE LEARN NOTHING FROM IT.”
“I may be blind, but I can see how inspiring it is to be me.”
“Either it is a phrase or a phase ,both depends on the dedication of our retrace.
Indulge your headwork in hardwork. Ur devotion didn't surely involve success, but an ability to evolve in those mysterious moments of ur internal self fight.”
“One single matchstick can burn the whole field ,buttt, only when,, the crops are collectively as a single element/field . So, collect ur treasured passions n talents n burn ,to brighten ur life with the shimmer of headwork instead of worthless hardwork..”
“Not truly living in the present moment & later regretting is like closing your eyes when a peacock is dancing, only to want to see it dance once it is gone.”
“No matter how much you desire to live.....life is indeed lifeless if you don't have the love of God in you.”
“Being a man is not enough, being a good man is.”
“WHEN "I" BECOMES "WE",EVEN "ILLNESS" BECOMES "WELLNESS"”
“Most people lose the only thing they possess—Life—while acquiring the many things that will finally never be theirs.”
“Most people would be successful by now but their HUSTLE is seasonal.”
“Most people are losing life making money. Soon they are left with lot of money but no life.”
“Learn from the past, embrace the present, and prepare for the future”
“Life is not just to run and run, it is also not just to have fun. Life is complete when we get something worthwhile done.”
“Live Life,
Forgiving All Your Enemies,
For Whats Done Is Done,
And Expected The Unexpected,
For It All Leads To One”
“Forgiveness ꟷ an empowering path to a meaningful future.”
“Wilderness is the way, Word of God is the Map that leads and Holy Spirit is the GPS who guides us to the Destiny to which GOD has called us.”
“There are people who are dancing through Life and others who are crying through Life. The irony is that Life is the same—what we do is purely our Choice.”
“The man with ideas is the one that can move the world.”
“Standing between dreams & reality is the stumbling blocks called doubt & fear.”
“Look at the people around you. Some Inspire you, some Perspire you. Be with those that build Energy in you.”
“The easiest way to Grow, is to let Go. Knowing, that someone else is managing the show!‪”
“If you don't get what you want, you want what you get”
“Some people keep wandering aimlessly from womb to tomb. They seek nothing and achieve nothing.”
“The greatest love is when someone holds on to you even when your pushing them away.”
“Excuse Doesn't Make Perfection But Perfection Can Make Excuse For Other.”
“My Simplicity Is My Fashion.”
“Let's not be victims of the past or shadows of the future, let's be in the present.”
“Life is a fight. Nothing is given to us on a golden plate”
“There is gravity in human affairs as in the heavenly bodies. It seems anyone who wants to go up is always pulled down.”
“Even with all the hardships you face in life, don't forget to smile”
“The courage to live, the strength not to die.”
“Until we are in touch with the underlying cause of our deepest and darkest pain or fear, it is hard to move forward in life, even with the best of intentions to build something good and strong ---it is like trying over and over again to build a beautiful house on a weak foundation.”
“When one helps a less fortunate soul, one does not elevate just him but rather the whole of humanity.”
“You can't put your feet in a bucket of water and wonder why you can't seem to catch on fire. Get serious about making a difference. Stop holding back.”
“When you revere another, you dilute within yourself God's capacity for being.”
“Within each man lies the capacity to win or lose. When you win with the ego, it is another man's loss. When you win with the heart, it is a triumph for all humanity.”
“Only through love does one pave the way to truth.”
“Mediocrity arises when one pursues the talents of another, whereas by trusting your own uniqueness you can forge a new mold of being onto the world.”
“Most choose ego over wisdom. Wisdom and ego are mutually exclusive.”
“Those who are not Free, can't even climb a Tree .... Forget about them being what they want to Be!”
“There will be no need to envy another man's dreams,because you also have the power to manufacture yours.”
“This life is a very interesting place,because it is a place where dreams can be fulfilled.”
“Man can never progress until he partners with belief.”
“Don't wait for the world to change, be the change you wish to see in the world.”
“Look at a stonecutter hitting at the rock. Nothing happens at first, but after many strikes, the rock eventually cracks. In Life, don't Doubt. Keep at it and it will happen.”
“Stop chasing after your wants and neglecting your needs because at the end of the day, your needs will serve you better than your wants”
“The right way to success is by starting where you are using the limited resources you think you have.”
“Suffering can actually kill the one without the willpower to survive.”
“Creativity is nothing but Symbol of your Existence”
“There is nobody else on earth like you and me. Let us be who we are meant to be.”
“You haven't really lived a life if you haven't inspired anybody.”
“Life is like an Hourglass. The grains of sand drop one by one and then it’s all over. Live before you die.”
“Your Actions are harder than Your Words,So you need more actions and less words in order to excel in life”
“Everyday in your life is the best if you make it.”
“Success is not to get what you want, instead it's to go for it even when you know you can't do it.”
“The silent word; it screams the loudest.”
“Sempre pensei que um copo cheio conseguiria fazer com que o teu nome escapasse por entre as celas da minha mente que tanto fazem questão de manter-te preso mas isso veio-se a provar errado.”
“Joy and Bliss can come from the little and most unexpected things if only we Program our Mind to enjoy these little things.”
“Everyone wants to meet great people (scientists, celebrities, singers etc).Why wasting your time for that when you can be one people will want to meet.”
“I don’t know much but all I know is GOD is and will always be on your side. No matter the weather, your circumstances and challenges. He is always with you every step of the way. Embrace Him; worship Him and lean on Him.”
“Don't let your convictions change because of the people around you. If you believe in something, stand by it even if no one will stand with you.”
“We know that we have a voice, some choose to speak and be heard. While others just speak!!”
“It is true that everyone has Problems, and it is also true that every problem has a Solution. If this is the reality of Life, then why not focus on solutions rather than Problems.”
“Music is like a well traveled road. If you travel it long enough you'll instinctively know where to go.”
“I invite and acknowledge only Positive thoughts and people who create Happiness in my Life.”
“ I have seen the mind of the future,it is filled with young & vibrant dreams that have great potentials to become reality.”
“I have seen the heart of this world,its a dangerous place filled with hatred,malice & jealousy,a place where brothers begrudge brothers & sisters malign sisters.”
“Our innate potentials can become glaring reality when we dare to take the first step.”
“I am so great because i have learnt to endure hardship,misery & suffering with a positive attitude.”
“Your most inspiring story in life can be told during challenging periods.”
“I am not perfect. Are you? Let us accept the fact that nobody is perfect. Let us learn to accept our imperfections as well as those of others.”
“INSANITY is when you are lost in your own IMAGINATION”
“Think through problems with a positive mind & solutions will never be far off.”
“Confidence is derived from how hard you work.”
“Adventure may hurt you, but at least you're not dying of boredom.”
“When you seek truth, search within.”
“If you celebrate Independence Day on just one day of the year, it only goes on to show that you are not truly Free…. Learn to celebrate your Freedom every day!”
“What came first, the chicken or the head?”
“I will shine as I promote others; knowing that with each person I lead to success, I guide myself into a glorious expectancy!
- Jaquez Williams”
“Life is made up of Moments. Moments create Days, days create Months, months create Years, years create LIFE. Lose the Moment and you lose Life.”
“It’s great to earn, but don’t leave it behind for someone else to burn.”
“The five fingers represent five different thinking levels,patterns & destinies of humanity.”
“Suffering makes man tough to withstand life toughest situation.”
“Embrace poverty,for deep down inside poverty is the potentials for massive wealth accumulation.”
“We can breach the obstacles to advance to our dream destinies with belief,passion & persistence.”
“You can't put your feet in a bucket of water and wonder why you can't seem to catch on fire. Get serious about making a difference. Stop holding back.”
““You have brains think. Your child scratchs on your car and you grow wild. Wanting to beat that child. BUT YOU SEND YOUR BODY TO THE TATTOO SHOP, FOR YOUR BODY TO BE SCRATCHED. IS YOUR CAR MORE PRECIOUS THAN YOUR BODY.””
“Your vote is for one person, but your quote should be for all.”
“The only day to do something great is today and nothing else, because today will never come again.”
“She bid me take love easy, as the leaves grow on the tree;
But I, being young and foolish, with her would not agree.”
“Winning an argument doesn't mean you are right.”
“If the past was what we were meant to see…then behind, not in front, our eyes would be.”
“Sleep is for the weak and the sheep.”
“It's always something is better than it's never anything”
“FIRST DESIDE YOUR VISION, MISSION 'N GOAL, IT'S THE ONLY WAY OF SUCCESS”
“As a preschool teacher, perfection is imperfection!”
“a happy childhood lasts a life time”
“How come he suddenly became rich says the poor? But while the poor was idling & sleeping,the rich was dreaming & planning.”
“How can you get what you want if you do not know what you are seeking?”
“What is life without problems, everyone has problems. That's life.”
“Don't be scared to death of death til death. LIVE.”
“Be your biggest competitor - challenge yourself each day to be better than you were yesterday.”
“The potency of your imagination shows the time it is bound to manifest.”
“Behind every imagination lies its manifestation time.”
“For tomorrow to be alright,we got to think aright today.”
“Nature shows different ways to move your lives.But,the decision is individual.How wonder it is,..........”
“When going to the battle field called life,you must go with your beliefs or else you are already defeated.”
“Challenging time is opportunity for the tough & positive minded to reign.”
“People chase dreams all the time. They can make that dream possible.Sometimes to make it possible they must change there self to make that dream possible. Even at the cost of there own well being. Even to become someone new.So in order to make something possible you must be willing to change to make it possible. We all have dreams and chase dreams. Never let someone tell you a dream is to big to follow-Jamie Hall”
“If you can't take the pain, don't complain.”
“The hardest thing about being a man is that, no matter how hard it is to find a way. A REAL MAN has to find it.”
“FAITH creates Energy that makes Success possible. DOUBT paralyses and makes the possible impossible.”
“There is no greater enjoyment to me than to inspire someone else to live their life”
“There is no greater enjoyment to me than to inspire someone else to live their life”
“Same page, different stories, forever friends”
“Same page, different stories, forever friends”
“It doesn’t cost much to be Happy if the currency of your heart is the blowing of the breeze and the swaying of the trees.”
“Live to escape reality and Dream of reality”
“Do you want to make your Life exciting? Then find a purpose that will make you jump out of bed each day with Enthusiasm, Power and Excitement.”
“Unquenched driven desire is the road to poverty.”
“we are all trying to fit in our own way like the stars that shape the night sky, but how much we are trying to glow ?”
“This is who I am. I shine brighter than the Sun and the universe is my home. My existence in your indigent realm is nothing but a mere stop on my never ending journey through everlasting bliss.”
“Don't let your life be a tape recorder of the misery of the past. You can do nothing about the past.”
“There are some that live to exist. While other exist to Impact. Which one are you?”
“If you spend your time waiting on other to encourage you. You maybe making a risky investment.”
“First, know where you want to go. Then, go where you want to go. You are your own pilot and you can choose your Destination.”
“The only thing you own is your imagination.”
“Keep going your dreams even you suffer miserable in life.”
“I used to worry about my Fears, but I realized that most of the time nothing bad happened. So, I have stopped worrying.”
“When people flash their light on you, remember the stadium lights are already on them. People see more of them, then they see of you.”
“Dare to be different. The world is full of the ordinary.”
“Be the piece that brings peace...”
“If you stop competing with do, say, when, and where of everyone else. You'll win the competition of hating yourself.”
“Every day is a new day, created by GOD for us to become a better version of ourselves; we should use the power of this gift to redirect our pathway to accomplish our goals and to make others proud to have known us. Recognize this reoccurring opportunity every morning to demonstrate that failure is just at the bottom of success.”
“The most successful people trained their minds to generate only happy thoughts. Try it and see how many opportunities come your way.”
“Everyday there will be an opportunity to Frown or to Smile, to Drown or to Dance, to be Sad or to be Glad. It's a Choice!”
“Even a blind person can find his way but we with eyes are still struggling.”
“Strength is not a trait, it's a choice.”
“Backed with big dreams today,the future has no other option than to be big & bright.”
“Every moment of Life is a Challenge to Choose. Some Win, some Lose.”
“Believe in life & possibilities,then death & impossibilities will be too shy to come near your abode.”
“True learning is defined as the ability to receive new information, retain it for a period of time, and recall it when it is relevant.”
“The Key to Happiness is to be FREE to BE what you want to BE!”
“Before asking others to change to fit your needs, 1st, look for change within yourself”
“One day you will face the hardest decision of your life: to choose the right thing or to choose what makes you happy, but when you finally decide you will realise that they were the same thing. The right thing is to do what makes you happy”
“If Someone judge by your looks & say
"You are not beautiful"
Just Smile Back them & Say
"I have an Attitude which is Million Times More beautiful than who you are"
Attitude Leads to Destiny
#AceTalksTruth”
“Two Ways to Live a Life:
First one
Wear a Mask for a Sake of Society
Run Towards a Needs all through the life
Die as a Just an another common Man
Second one
Be Urself with an Attitude
Work Towards a Destiny with full involvement
Die as The Legend and Leave a Never die Legacy..
But Most Choose a Easy and Safe first way
#AceTalksTruth”
“Most Precious Thing in this World is our 'TEARS'..
It's a Best companion Whenever we are in JOY or SORROW..
Don't Waste it for Unwanted Reason & Undeserving Person..
#AceTalksTruth- Din(Aceman)”
“A person who
Helps to get out of your PAST..
make u comfortable in your PRESENT...
Is a one who is for your FUTURE ...
#AceTalksTruth- Din(Aceman)”
“No more Divide and Conquer.. Let's just unite and heal. - Lylah Persad”
“If you are going to do something, do it WELL or don't bother doing it at at all. - Lylah Persad / Zenlylah”
“Don't change yourself for Anyone..
If you do..
It's takes away your UNIQUE identity from you..
#AceTalksTruth - Din(Aceman)”
“Don't Try to be a 'GOOD' person to Everyone..
It Won't Happen..
Just Try to be a 'REAL' Person to Yourself..
#AceTalksTruth- Din(Aceman)”
“Never ever underestimate any failure in this world.. They can do wonders that one can not even think of..”
“Don't Look for a 'PUSH' from others in your life..
It will surely 'PULL' you more backwards..
Push yourself.. Prove Yourself..
#AceTalksTruth -Din(Aceman)”
“It's Not About How Much Pain you get in your life..
It's all about How you overcome that pain and
Moving Forward in Successful manner..
#AceTalksTruth- Din(Aceman)”
“Don't Expect Superheroes to Solve your Problems..
Become a Superhero to Solve your Problems..
Have your own Attitude and Be an Aceman..
#AceTalksTruth - Din(Aceman)”
“Our thoughts and dreams make this world, and reality is only as true as we perceive it to be.”
“To live content with small means; to seek elegance rather than luxury, and
refinement rather than fashion; to be worthy, not respectable, and wealthy, not
rich; to study hard, think quietly, talk gently, act frankly; to listen to stars and
birds, to babes and sages, with open heart; to bear all cheerfully, do all bravely,
await occasions, hurry never. In a word, to let the spiritual, unbidden and
unconscious, grow up through the common. This is to be my symphony.”
“A closed mouth, a clenched fist; it's vile, it reeks!”
“If you keep doing things that don't matter to you, you will not have time to do things that really do.”
“It Doesn't Matter
How many persons present in your life..
Only matters is
How many Really need your presence in their life..
#AceTalksTruth- Din(Aceman)”
“IN LIFE, GOALS ALWAYS INDUCE HARD WORK.”
“THERE’S ALWAYS A PLACE AT THE TOP FOR THE MAN WHO WORKS HARD.”
“IN LIFE, BE ONE OF THOSE WHO BRING OUT THE BEST IN OTHERS.”
“Your dreams are your desires that can only manifest with the application of the tools called Passion & determination.”
“NEVER WORRY WHENEVER PEOPLE LAUGH AT YOU IN LIFE; WORK HARD AND YOUR SUCCESS WILL SILENCE THEM.”
“IN LIFE, PEOPLE CAN ALWAYS SHOW YOU THE WAY OR EVEN WALK WITH YOU BUT THEY CAN NEVER WALK FOR YOU.”
“WITH NEGATIVE ATTITUDE, EVEN THE POSSIBLE ALWAYS APPEARS IMPOSSIBLE.”
“Declare that you are the best & the biggest & soon the all hearing Universe will manifest your declarations.”
“IT'S THE CHALLENGES WE GO THROUGH IN LIFE AND HOW WE OVERCOME THEM THAT MAKE OUR STORIES INSPIRING TO OTHERS.”
“IN THE PURSUIT OF YOUR GOALS, MANY PEOPLE WILL ALWAYS LAUGH AT YOU; HOWEVER THAT SHOULD NEVER DISCOURAGE YOU, BUT CAUSE YOU TO WORK EVEN HARDER TO ACHIEVE THEM.”
“ALWAYS WEAR A SMILE; SOMETIMES IT'S ALL SOMEONE ELSE NEEDS TO HEAL THEIR WOUNDED HEART.”
“I can Inspire myself.. world can get Inspired by "me"”
“HAPPINESS IS A CHOICE YOU MUST MAKE EVERYDAY.”
“IN LIFE, THERE'S ALWAYS ROOM FOR IMPROVEMENT FOR EVERYONE.”
“IN EVERY SITUATION IN LIFE, WE MUST NOT ONLY BE HOPEFUL BUT AS WELL KEEP THE HOPE ALIVE.”
“HE WHO IS HUNGRY FOR SUCCESS NEVER GIVES IN TO DIFFICULTIES.”
“TO HIM WHO PERSISTS, SUCCESS IS GUARANTEED.”
“OFTEN ATTACHED TO FREE THINGS ARE HIDDEN STRINGS.”
“IN LIFE, YOU SHOULD COUNT ONLY WHAT IS ALREADY IN YOUR BASKET.”
“Life is like a car on the road. Pay too much attention to what is ahead of you, not what is behind you. Constantly looking at what is in the back will distract you from paying attention to the front, and this distraction can well cost you your life.”
“SUCCESS after success shows us
How to live Happily..
But Success after Long failures Shows us
How to Live Properly..
Find the way of it..
#AceTalksTruth - Din(Aceman)”
“Many People cease to Believe in Me..
I Appreciated them..
Because of Their disbelief...
I believe in Myself Even more..
#AceTalksTruth- Din(Aceman)”
“Birds fly because they believe they can. All they have to do is open their wings and fly. You can too.”
“There is one word i have practically refused to see in my dictionary & it is the word called impossible.”
“Life is A Strange thing..
There is a time come when you loss your faith,
Love,
Mind,
Dignity &
Everything..
Your life filled with Dark & Emptiness..
You finally decide to Give up...
But
Suddenly a small light appear in your darkness..
It brings you Everything you lost...
That's Ray of Light is Nothing But a 'HOPE'..
Keep it in yourself & Believe in One thing..
MIRACLE CAN HAPPEN AT ANY TIME..
#AceTalksTruth - Din(Aceman)”
“There is No such thing like 'HAPPY ENDINGS' in Real life..
It Only happens in Movies..
So Don't wait for an End..
Live the Life from the Beginning..
#AceTalksTruth - Din(Aceman)”
“If a Guy Done Something Stupid for First Time..
It's His Thing..
If that Guy Done same Stupid thing for Second Time..
Definitely it's to Impress some Girl..
#AceTalksTruth- Din(Aceman)”
“You must speak, live, and breathe whatever product or service that you are marketing. Everyone around you should know about your product or service, because you are a product of your product!”
“Don't be an 'ADVISER' to anyone..
Just be the 'GUIDE' to Everyone..
#AceTalksTruth- Din(Aceman)”
“BE AN INSPIRATION TO OTHERS; BE THE REASON THEY DON'T GIVE UP IN LIFE.”
“Dance before the music is over. Live before your Life is over.”
“In order to be Famous in this world..
You not only Accept Praising..
You also have to be Ready to Accept Criticism..
#AceTalksTruth- Din(Aceman)”
“Best Message from The Guy For his Love:
I won't Promise you that..
I can solve all your problems..
But I promise you that..
Whenever you have Problems..
I am always there..
For you..
with you..
Forever..
#AceTalksTruth- Din(Aceman)”
“If Someone Hate you without any Reason..
Give them hell of a Reason to Hate..
#AceTalksTruth - Din(Aceman)”
“Nothing is Impossible in this World..
Even the word 'Impossible' can also change into..
I M POSSIBLE..
#AceTalksTruth- Din(Aceman)”
“PRIORITY EARNS RESPECT”
“Life has taught me that money is important, but it’s not everything. For, if I have all the money in the world, but no time to enjoy, of what use is it?”
“Don't Laugh on others pain..
Try to Make them laugh out of their pain..
Be Smile.. Make smile..
#AceTalksTruth - Din(Aceman)”
“Don't try to INVENT New Things on you..
There is always something special present within you..
Find the way to 'DISCOVER' it..
#AceTalksTruth- Din(Aceman)”
“BeWare of others Thoughts..
Behave as Human..
Believe in Yourself..
Be Safe..
Become an Aceman with an Attitude..
#AceTalksTruth- Din(Aceman)”
“If you Really Need a Change..
Don't Look for it from Others..
Just be The Change..
#AceTalksTruth- Din(Aceman)”
“It requires so much more than knowledge to follow through on what we may know is right for us. We are simply not strong enough. But wait, WE DO NOT HAVE TO BE! Although we are limited in our own strength, GREATER STRENGTH still ABOUNDS.”
“Every day is a choice to keep moving forward. If done so, then every night is a victory.”
“Life is like a river—it keeps flowing, flowing, and flowing till it merges into the sea. Nothing can stop the flow of Life, but you can enjoy the Journey.”
“How wonderful is to have someone cares about us someone to share each step and each accomplishment for some love is vage phase and for other is a necessity we all born to love but we express it in million ways”
“We fall and we raise like tides
And shores measure our heights
We might be up and we might be down
But in the end we all result of gravitational”
“We all waiting for things to get better
We all waiting for luck to show matter
In different ways and different platforms
We still goning to have our transport”
“We always believed at some point a light will start breaking front us guiding us to our dreams and targets but this light won't come because it's already exist inside us we just need to direct it.”
“It mights be just an edge and it mights be just an end but it's also could be a begining of a beautiful thing”
“You can find thousands of ancient places but only one can tells you story”
“We are heroes in the hearts of our children. Make sure to live up to the part.”
“Without Hard Work you may get Success! But not knowledge and experience in life”
“Never see yourself as anything less than wonderful.”
“They say my dreams are crazy, but without them I would be insane.”
“If you can say nothing kind, then kindly say nothing.”
“They say my dreams are crazy, but without them I would be insane.”
“Life began as a blank canvas. Unless we splash some color on it, it will remain rather dull. We must create our own masterpiece.”
“One of our greatest emotional needs is to feel appreciated.”
“Sometimes the unlikeliest of pairs hit it off and form a bond that lasts a lifetime.”
“Making money may give a sense of Achievement. But making a difference will give a sense of Fulfillment. -RVM”
“All we can do in life, is the very best we can each day. If we've accomplished that, we've already succeeded more than most.”
“Each day we arise is a gift, and another chance to accomplish that which we did not yesterday. Use this gift wisely.”
“Be your own judge. But don't go too easy on the defendant.”
“Life doesn't come with instructions, but we get on the job training every day.”
“Contentment doesn't come from having what you want. It comes from wanting what you already have.”
“Make time for the important things in life. It's all about priorities.”
“Communication is the hallmark of any great relationship.”
“In all the darkness, it is still possible to find hope. In all the confusion, peace still abounds. In the most crowded place, you can find solitude. Even in the midst of peril, there is always a way out. It all comes down to you. So choose wisely!”
“If something happens that causes you Pain, remind yourself that you can’t get the Rainbow without a little Rain.”
“There is a force that helps overcome & overtake oppositions & solidifies man's position here on earth & it is called belief.”
“Wait for that when no one can stand in front of your shoon.”
“Searched a lost en-route.”
“Like a feather in the air, like a leaf in the sea, I surrender to Thee, I surrender to Thee.”
“Believe the best of people and the best will show up.”
“Simply put, at the end of the day, there's nothing, absolutely nothing, that the unconditional love of a dog doesn't take care of for the soul.”
“No, none is perfect, and although we speak many different languages, we must be willing to come together for one common purpose! It should never just be about "me", but rather, "us"!”
“Don’t Hurry through life, don’t Worry through Life. Life is not just to Run, it’s also to have some Fun.”
“A great many people think they are thinking when they are rearranging their
prejudices.”
“If only I had spent my time spending my money rather than just making it, I would have died a happier man”
“Your business isn't about what you want. It's about what your customers want! You must be willing to drop your ego and listen to your customers!”
“It is not important how long we live but how well we Live. Add Meaning to your Life each day.”
“tits bambi”
“The road to overcoming your fears could lead you to unbearable places but sometimes such gives you an edge than nothing else could give.”
“Greatness is never found in the names you call yourself,but it is only found in the ideas you can birth & nurture.”
“Don't worry about what others think of you. It doesn't matter as long as you have your own Convictions and are proud of what you do.”
“One who glorifies his own desire expects a positive result to be at favour”
“WE CAN CHANGE THE WORLD, BUT WE MUST FIRST CHANGE OURSELVES.”
“God doesn't shout; he whispers into our mind.”
“I am the Richest man on earth because I am the Happiest man on earth. After all, isn’t Happiness the Greatest Wealth in Life?”
“It only takes persistence to be persistent.”
“Look around! People have faces with no smiles, as if they are carrying heavy baggage. Stop them! Give them a SMILE and see them Light up.”
“When there is no way,try Jesus. Jesus said, “I am the way, the truth, and the life.” That’s the only way to eternal life. And no other way. - CLA, AL”
“There is neither perfect time nor perfect world.So do your work right away to get the perfect world you need.”
“I get this terrible itch. An itch I can only scratch with a pen or a keyboard.”
“There is neither perfect time nor perfect world.So do the work right away and make the perfect world of your own.”
“Dreaming small signifies gross fear of life.”
“I would rather live 10 years doing what I Love, than drag through Life 50 years, hating everyday I Live.”
“It's only in another's success you can know the one with the heart of success.”
“Progress is working assiduosly for your advancement & also working for the advancement of others.”
“Impress yourself first with your work and the world will definitely stop to clap.”
“life is a very sassy lady.unless you fuck her very hard, you'll never get the fun.don't let her be raped by somebody else so that at last you can say that,"yeah! she had been somebody very different, very unique". Be different. Be unique.”
“Time is a commodity you wished you could pay for!”
“Be kind to everyone because one day your kindness will be your Identity.”
“Only time can prove the value of a person
With a few to appreciate it”
“Life is a maze. Don't just gaze. Change your pace, to win the race.”
“The morning is your exposition. I look forward towards your climax.”
“First, I had time, but no money; then I had money, but no time. Finally, I had time and money, but no health to make use of my wealth.”
“Team building requires individual commitment.”
“I've never met a perfect person, only he who strives to become one.”
“Its not worth it to dream small in this once in a lifetime opportunity to witness life,rather enlarge your dreams.”
“Everybody has to die. Why cry, when you have wings to fly!”
“The moment you begin to think of a particular thing every blessed day,its reality will not be far of.”
“Life is a Mirror. What you view in it is what you will get out of it. What you Perceive in Life, you will Receive.”
“"It's always been an uphill battle against adversity; Tell me I can't do something and I'll prove you wrong every time." -Kishan Patel (Laval, QC, Canada)”
“The Best Day to Stand Up, Show Up and Be Remembered, IS TODAY!”
“Take courage in what's right, then stand firm.”
“IAM everything, yet nothing; IAM that IAM; IAM Love.”
“The progress we desire to make in life begins from our thoughts,once we progress in our thoughts all other outward events progresses.”
“The ability to dream big can never be gotten from the four walls of a college,but it can only be gotten by cultivating the habit of searching & mining the inner resources of the mind.”
“Don’t waste your time going to school,get imagination & the world will be entirely yours.”
“This life is a beautiful place to live in,even though filled with misrule & mischief makers,they are stationed for a purpose to make the journey more exciting,follow through with patience & perseverance ,for the end will be success.”
“To rest your entire hope on man is to act & become foolish & be rest assured that disappointment will follow you throughout life.”
“To wish for something is desire, to go after it is courage; to attain it is risk”
“Motivational or Inspirational quotes are essentially to enlighten minds by creating awareness than to entertain people by competing with one another as who can say better about Success & Happiness.”
“Faith gives Courage to the heart and Energy to the mind to make the Impossible Possible.”
“"LIFE IS NOT TO HATE OTHERS,LIFE IS TO GIVE YOURSELF ENOUGH TO OTHERS"
(HAQUOTES!!!!!)”
“"RED ROSES FOR LOVE,WHITE ROSES FOR PEACE CAN MAKE OUR LIFE"
(HAQUOTES!!!!!!)”
“Don’t just go where you want to go, but run, jump and dance as you are going. That’s life. Enjoy every moment of life.”
“If you really want more, then cross the door and get to the shore.”
“The most disheartening or gratifying thing in life is not whether you fail or succeeded but rather if you allowed FEAR to keep you from doing either.”
“Smile. Laugh. Make Happy. Be Happy. No Matter What.”
“If you want to defeat hardship be patience.”
“Words entered the ear, ear pass the words to the brain, brain reason the words & choose one and drop the word to the mouth then the mouth vomit the word. Think.”
“We are the same, we breathe the same air, we live on the same earth, and we look at the same sky, we are crazy to tell the difference between us”
“Yes you are working hard when your coffee gets cold by the time you realize to drink it.”
“A Child Of God is someone whose inner beauty is outwardly evident!”
“Remember, you must climb and conquer the stairs prior to reaching center stage!”
“Faith resembles walking confidently and steady with your head held high, all while your eyes are closed”
“God will never judge me based on how I am treated by another. He does, however, judge me based on my response.”
“The best way to gather intelligence is to be silent and listen.”
“A photograph is the pause button of life.”
“The simplest way to Rejoice is to Count your Blessings and be grateful for them. You will automatically feel Joy in your Heart.”
“The opportunity to witness another day is the opportunity to unleash more of your potentials.”
“Let your shadow walk with you, because it will make you remember the mistakes you made in past.”
“First you Yearn to Earn. Then you Learn that others will Burn what you Earn. Stop! Turn and Spend before your End.”
“The Sun challenges us to Shine, the Clouds remind us to Move, the Birds tell us we too can Fly and the Sky tells us that there is no limit to our Dreams and Goals.”
“To live every Moment, is to Decide that you Don't wanna Die every moment”
“Many people become prosperous only to realize the illusion that Success is more Fulfillment than Achievement.”
“Life's Irony;One cannot be a small thinker & expect to solve big problems.”
“Crises period brings many opportunities to the highly positive because, during this period there will be lesser competition for success.”
“You just have to be in race to win it. You don't have to be best in race to win it.”
“Why just celebrate birthdays? Why not celebrate every day? In reality, we are born anew everyday. Everyday is a Birthday!”
“Those who don't believe in miracles won't see one.”
“Those who don't believe in miracles won't see one.”
“A person with great self-esteem will stay quiet no matter how much he has been hurt.”
“Look around you. While dogs bark, birds sing and fly. People will talk; Don’t worry. You just walk- Just Fly!”
“Failing an exam doesn't mean a thing, but not failing one is everything”
“Service is not the art of getting but it is the art of giving.”
“The biggest mistake you’ll make is thinking that the biggest mistake you’ll make is making a mistake.”
“Life is your biggest Treasure. Enjoy it. If you forget to, it will soon be gone, never to return.”
“In life you can't have your way all the time,but you will always have a way you can make yours.”
“Possible is Possible”
“Fear hold my hand as I step into fearless”
“If you don't like the Fruits you are growing, then change the Seeds you are sowing.”
“History is a complex web of lies, truths and confusion. The true nature of a historian is not to cut through the web, but to follow its strings. The burden of cutting through the web falls on humanity.”
“Many people are hurt in Life. But the problem is not the hurt. They Curse, Nurse, and Rehearse their hurt instead of Reversing it, and Live miserably.”
“Travel is a Open University and I am on a PHD mission”
“You must create something good or bad on earth to represent your absent.”
“Nothing is more tiring than being idle.”
“Do it because you WANT to, not just because you HAVE to. When you do what you want, you create an Unstoppable POWER.”
“Wake up in the morning and get into each day, living it in a way that will make you happy and gay.”
“The fool runs from meditation,but the wise knows that inside meditation are solutions to life's numerous problems.”
“If you believe in miracles you have faith.”
“The timing on the Lord's side is impeccable how the inspiration of the sisters helped me, so when you visit teach or give service to others you are doing the Lord's work because you are on his watch as he works through you.”
“God Trusts you to Trust Him.”
“God knew trouble BEFORE trouble knew you.”
“Not living your Dream is like holding your future Hostage”
“God's Suddenly is GREATER than the enemy's Instantly!”
“Sometimes All you got isa All you need.”
“EVERY SETBACK IN LIFE IS A WAY FORWARD
BECAUSE IT IS AN EXPERIENCE AND
GOD'S WAY OF TEACHING YOU SOMETHING”
“When things don't happen, people get Sick. They see time Tick and they want it Quick. They forget that Success happens brick by brick.”
“Cherish the people who create obstacles for you,
for they challenge you to think about ways to overcome
the problems, and in the process, you learn and succeed”
“When you don't believe in yourself you will only advance but to no where.”
“World peace means union”
“Life is full of hurdles. Bump It or Jump It!”
“The Attitude of Gratitude can raise your Altitude. Being Thankful is a magical way to reach the Top.”
“My gift to myself has always been you.”
“Like diamonds in the sky, you're beautiful to the eye. Beaches and sands washed away, say bye. Forever young, please don’t cry. My love for you will never die.”
“At the end of the day it doesn't matter what people believe in but it matters how we treat each other”
“It's very nice to dream. But when you stay up a little later, wake up a little earlier, there's a better chance they will come true.”
“Success is inversely proportional to failure and the constant in this case is vision.”
“When you steal other people's work make sure you modify it such that it's cheap so that you can even beat them on the market.”
“It only seems hard when it hasn't happened.”
“It's easy to compare yourself to others, but some days, we need to look in the mirror and analyze the actual competition.”
“It's in the beauty of life, that we become beautiful.”
“There are in fact four very different stumbling blocks in the way of grasping the
truth... the example of weak and unworthy authority, longstanding custom, the
feeling of the ignorant crowd, and the hiding of our own ignorance while making
a display of our apparent knowledge.”
“The most beautiful thing, is life itself.”
“Never fear tough times,for it is only during tough times we can truly know the tough ones.”
“The space between the words taught that a little distance is necessary to better understand each other.”
“Karma is not always about doing good things but sometimes just doing right things .”
“Do your best, leave the rest.”
“Life is about adding value to another persons life.”
“Nothing in this world is Good or Bad. Our thinking makes it so. A knife is good when a surgeon uses it to save a life & bad when a terrorist uses it to kill.”
“Instead of trying to understand Life, we must live it. Create a reason to Live and progress on that path every day.”
“Those that are going everywhere,
anywhere and nowhere have the same destination”
“If you want to go forward look inward and if you want to go backward look outward.”
“To get a rest give your best and to give your best you need a rest.”
“The greatest discovery is the discovery of oneself”
“Introspect! Is your life moving forward or just moving like a pendulum?”
“To succeed you must see what others are not seeing and you must hear what others are not hearing”
“If what you see is what can be seen then you cant see”
“I live to talk and I talk to live”
“You do not go to school to become a graduate you go to school to become a competent learner”
“If you don't see the connections, make them yourself.”
“It is ironic that we are particular about flushing out all the dirt through the Drain, but we continue to retain a lot of it in our Brain.”
“We all leave a trail of footprints in this world, so leave the ones you want others to follow.”
“Right beneath the horrible banner called crises is the beautiful banner called opportunity.”
“Without taking the right precautions,having a positive mind only may just be like pouring water into a basket & expecting it to get filled.”
“The same walls we put up to defend our hearts, isolate our souls”
“While people may be impressed by your achievements, they are they may be more INSPIRED by WHY you did them.”
“The most important principle of success is having the mind to succeed”
“In life, some laugh, some cry, some live, some die. The choice is ours to crawl or to fly.”
“Hoping is a great Positive emotion and you must HOPE. But remember, you can’t just Hope for Success, you also have to work for it.”
“Change is always a challenge.”
“Waves in an ocean remind us that just as they come and go, we too will. What matters is did we make a good splash before leaving?”
“Inner peace comes from a clear conscience.”
“Living honestly is a prerequisite for a clear conscience.”
“Live your life the way you want not how other's think you should. If you're not happy with who you are, you will never be happy with who you're not.”
“Always be Happy! Without any reason.”
“Better try and fail than not trying and fail”
“Optimists anticipate problems, welcome them, and challenge them. Thus, eventually they defeat their problems.”
“Happy people do not have dead grass”
“ Limit your Expectation, so that you can live a healthy & Peace full Life ”
“Carrying a grudge in your heart or in your mind is like carrying a bunch of thorns on your body. You are just choosing to prick yourself with it.”
“If your Expectations revolves around the earth, you may achieve them. if your expectations revolves around the Galaxy, you definitely not”
“There's nothing more forgiving than a new day.”
“One who shows positive efforts in doing things the right way is a good successor towards making her history”
“The aim is the game. The barricade is the assailant. The toughness is the ultimatum. The courage is the weapon. The durability is the success.
Play the game, gain the aim and be what you intended to. -Bhojraz.k”
“The story of money is very funny. Others burn what we earn. Why not give as we live, so the world will cry when we die.”
“Knowledge illuminates any problem.”
“Implementation of knowledge generates new values.”
“Knowledge is beneficial for avoiding and resolving disputes.”
“A flood of words is by no means a proof of wisdom.”
“Do not tend to hire only people who see what you see. Such a tendency may lead to a decline in operating profit, and even bankruptcy.”
“Thinking differently is key to improvement.”
“Every good act is like a seed that we sow. We don’t know what it will bear, but it will bear some fruit some day.”
“This is the moment to be happy & to rejoice about life & never wait for the next moment in which you know not what will shape it.”
“Sadness is an emotion, but depression is a mindset.”
“Any person that does not know when he/she do wrong, doesn't know when he/she will fall into a deep hole.”
“Never belittle your small beginnings,for small beginning means big,if followed with unrepentant persistence.”
“I have never seen the way that leads to sweet progress like the obstacles riddled way.”
“Age is not the count of wisdom”
“We all know that Hurry is the main cause of Worry. Yet we Hurry and Worry and miss the most beautiful experience called Life.”
“Good to fight with struggle, rather taking help of disbelief”
“The best you can do is not actually the limit you can do.”
“Life without GOALS is like flying a plane not knowing where you want to land. The PURPOSE OF LIFE is to know where we want to go and then go there”
“Life will always exhibit the dominant thoughts in a man's mind.”
“Loving your haters actually makes you fly higher.”
“Success doesn’t come from motivation. It comes from Inspiration.”
“Being a hero is not only meant for the giants”
“The differences between doing the right and the wrong thing is not much its a matter of decision.”
“The best thing about life is that it doesn't remain the same and so is the time.”
“Some live Life strictly, following each and every rule rigidly. They go by the Book and get stuck by the Hook. Break free today, let conscience guide your way.”
“If the man in the mirror changes then the world will be a place where hope reigns.”
“The seeds we sow in the morning turns fruits in the evening.”
“In life's exhibition ground,the only commodity that can be exhibited are dreams.”
“Deep down inside poverty,there is always a secret cry for enterprise.”
“Tranquility is a Choice. So is Anxiety. The entire world around us may be in Turmoil. But if we want to be Peaceful within, WE CAN.-RVM”
“Every reality begins with a dream.”
“Life will make no sense without work.”
“I just don’t work with Brands, I make them.”
“The most fundamental service which can be offered is presence”
“Saying tomorrow only risks your chances of waking up after today.”
“You and I, she and he, her and him, white and black, gay and straight, we are all human, so start acting like so.”
“A belief is an opinion, a religion is a belief, and an opinion is a right.”
“Too often we wait for what we consider "the right moment" when "everything falls into place" before we embrace life and all the happiness which abounds. Things will never be perfect if you continue to just wait for them to "work out".”
“Tremendous energy lies within each one of us. Alas! We don’t discover and unleash it and when we die, we lose it because we didn’t use it.”
“Is not what, but who you have in your life that makes you a better person”
“The best thing to give is to forgive. It is a gift not only to the one who gets it but also to the one who gives.”
“Belief only will get you what you want but it should be firm.”
“If the man in the mirror changes,then the world will be a renewed place.”
“Never wait for change to come from outside, if it does not first begin with you.”
“Don’t be amongst those trying to build a better Tomorrow. We can have a better tomorrow only if our Today is better than our Yesterday.”
“Until your life becomes incomplete without your ideas,your ideas may not see the light.”
“It is okay to not have all the answers. There is a part of the beauty and surprise of life. Embrace it with a positive attitude and release all it has stored up for you. Yes, there will be hurt, and even sorrow, but they will be worth all the joy and happiness, if we would only live!”
“Brighter tomorrows are started today.”
“A problem-free life does not exist. If your life has no problems, you are not truly alive, and that’s a Big problem”
“Questions focus our thinking. Ask empowering questions like What's good about
this? What's not perfect about it yet? What am I going to do next time? How can I
do this and have fun doing it?”
“Never ride the bull, without first strapping your boots.”
“Don’t just GO through life, GROW through it. For Life comes to you only once . . . never to return! Climb the Ladder of Life, step by step.”
“For success to witness life beliefs must brake boundries.”
“What we notice is what resonates with our inner perspective. We tend to
overlook what does not connect with our current attitude or sense of awareness.
When it comes to a tragic occurrence, do we focus on the horror stories or on the
stories of courage and support? Both are available to us.”
“A lion is a strong and effective hunter, even more effective is pride of lions.”
“He was an inspiration, to say the least, ... For all of us. ... He was our hero in a lot of ways.”
“We are all just points of light in this vast ocean of people,
The only question is?
How bright are you going to shine!”
“One must complete the Past to embrace the Future, however, to embrace the Future one must first forgive the Past and live in the PRESENT.”
“God is a great source of inspiration.”
“Don’t surrender your life to a Face, a Farce, a Fence or a Force. Don’t be a Slave, be Brave”
“"To those who live life, there is opportunity; to those who depart life, there is closure".”
“One must complete the past to embrace the future, however to embrace the future one must forgive the past and live in the present, which in turn allows one to embrace the future.”
“We all look the same but see differently,look up and you will see the sky,some see Heaven,some hope. The Unknown is the spine of curious minds.Its all in the mind -”
“how can you know light whereas you've never met darkness?
Relief comes after pain,you claim to be free yet you've never been captive. Maybe free is overrated
Your worst enemy is the truth,why pick a fight you know you can't win? Some wars aren't fought for victory but for honour. Maybe you are not a fighter,then what are you?”
“To believe - is to create and abide, faith is determined by how much u believe and how far are u willing to abide.”
“This day is a beautiful day! Let us discard all of yesterday's mess and prepare for today's best. There is still so much that life has left to give. Embrace it all - the good, the bad, and the ugly! And remember, if tomorrow comes, just do it all over again!”
“If you have the guts to not give up,you can be anything you want to be.We're living creature that don't have wings, but still went to the moon.”
“Fear is the shackle that governs men. Courage is the key that will set us free.”
“Our life is like a Thought. It comes, but if we don’t capture it, it’s gone. Then, however much we may try, we can’t recall it again, for its gone forever.”
“Rain and Pain never go in Vain! They are just tests before we see GAIN.”
““Doesn't matter how strong, intelligent or wealthy I'd ever have became, I always considered myself equal to all the other living beings out there, but if it comes to a battle that I cannot win, I'll become somebody with no equal, and even if that's not enough, I'll adjust myself to the beyond point of no equal.””
“The two most patronized courses in life are riches & poverty.”
“The battle of life is already won if we fail to quit.”
“It is much more challenging to accept those who know a lot than those who know little.”
“Speaking the truth is the main attribute of a pure hearted person.”
“Who leaves you in your hard times is actually helping you get stronger.”
“Inside every man there is... not an animal for animals maintain their sophistication... but chaos. Chaos to destroy all which he cannot control.”
“life is like river..and stone are your enemy ..don't waste your time with fight him..take move from the..u got automatically curve from them.”
“Our bodies & environment responds to the words we utter.Speak life & life will manifest.”
“Today will be a great success if procastination can be defeated.”
“Dreams are the motivating tonic that keeps the great going.”
“Some are poor because they are poor dreamers,but some are rich because they are rich dreamers.”
“Failure to quit signifies a mind determined to execute success.”
“The mind made up for success can only be stimulated with every failure.”
“GIVE YOUR CHILD A DREAM AND THEY WILL NEVER STOP.”
“When you love people and have the desire to make a profound, positive impact
upon the world, then will you have accomplished the meaning to live.”
“GIVE YOUR CHILD A DREAM AND THEY WILL NEVER STOP.”
“GIVE YOUR CHILD A DREAM AND THEY WILL NEVER STOP.”
“They're trying to fill you with insanity”
““I rather have a little bit of what I need than everything of what I want.””
“What is a Miracle? It is something that was once thought Impossible but became Possible with FAITH.”
“The mind can land you in the place where your desire goes,it can either land you in the place where riches abide or in the place where poverty flourishes.”
“I am belief,I can do anything the mind set out to execute with precision,for without me nothing can ever be achieved,for I am the magic wand that can make fantasies become reality.the world needs to begin to consider & take me more seriously because,without me nothing of importance can ever be accomplished in this life,I am the fountain of life,for belief is the only way to success.”
“Life is an adventure ground,but this adventure can only be possible if we dare to dream.”
“Your purpose is to make this world a better place than the one you were born into”
“Your purpose is to make this world a better place than the one you were born into”
“Music replenishes the soul, the only other outlets that surpass that are prayer and meditation.”
“When you slip down a mountain of Joy, don't Worry. Instead of living gloomily in the dark valley, look up at the next peak and take one step in that direction.”
“The biggest misconception is thinking that you have time.”
“Living a short life as a proud person is more worthwhile than living a whole century as a chameleon.”
“Be a donkey today to become a master tomorrow.”
“The whole world is in constant motion. The earth moves, the clouds move, the waves move and we too must move. Move and reach the destination of your choice.”
“Persistence is the only balm that weary the disease called failure.”
“Go for it now. The future is promised to no one.”
“He who does not understand your silence will probably not understand your words.”
“Treasure your Ideas, for they are like seeds that germinate in your mind. They Root, Shoot, and Fruit into Concepts & Creativity that are beyond Imagination.”
“Your thinking capacity determines your attitude by Mumbere Samuel Dolson”
“Anyone and everyone can put words together. But to live that moment which is truly written needs an experience.”
“We will be remembered not by how much money we have left in the bank or by how many buildings and cars we owned, but by how many Lives we have touched and Transformed!”
“Wonderful fruits can still emanate from the ugly tree called crises or recession.”
“Only those that fail to quit,quit poverty & failure in their lives.”
“Those that plan to fail never need to write it down in their planning book,but they only need to keep procastinating.”
“Obstacles tend to becloud & cobweb the shining destiny.”
“Beyond me and you, is a world of forever with you and me...”
“The hands of time tick by so slowly, but these moments seem gone within the blink of an eye...”
“That moment where time freezes and for a second everything seems perfect...”
“Today i am bolder then i was yesterday, fighting the fight of life like i was a soldier in it...”
“With age comes knowledge, this is probably the only perk of life...”
“Today will be gone by tomorrow and tomorrow may never come...”
“Its not about what you create in this life, but how you build the next...”
“I have been told that the worldly system is terminal, that all efforts to add value will ultimately be worthless...”
“As you pass a level in life remember that although you can never re-do any passed levels, you can combine your lessons and experiences too pass the next...”
“Many people are so enamored by the glamour of the Gift of Life that they forget to Open, Understand, and Live it. Unwrap your Gift of Life and find the True Treasure.”
“When your Achievements Start to Glow Criticisms will start to flow, it’s a sign where you have reached beyond your social limitation”
“To me, modesty is the best style and black is the most beautiful colour.”
“I just don't want a place , i want a home to us. A home where we can just scatter ourselves and everything should smell us.”
“Some people live such boring lives; it’s Black & White, so dead! I choose to color my life with Fun, some Blue, some Green, some Red.”
“I earnestly desire work to come my way today,for inside it, I know i will find my opportunity.”
“The wise continually persist amidst failures because,they see the act of persistence as a way of life.”
“Each day of the week has a specific success code it carries,decode them & unravel success unlimited.”
“Stay positively tuned to the success channel &every crises or recession shall be untuned.”
“You will never know how much you value what you have, until it's safety is threatened.”
“Let the dogs bark as they cannot roar.”
“It is the price you pay for your dreams,that determines the prize you get as a Reward.”
“Instead of enjoying the Present Moment, why Dream of things beyond your reach and become miserable?”
“The beauty of life is pursuing dreams far bigger than one's resources.”
“Challenge them with your beliefs,those that intend & desire to relegate you to the status of the inferior.”
“Prosperity can never emanate from our poverty conscious thoughts,but poverty Unlimited.”
“Most people only dream. Don't be like most people. Wake up and work for it.”
“Do something nice today and you'll sleep better tonight.”
“"Never give up is such a cliché saying yet it has a trillion different meanings”
“Dream wildly, madly, freely and playfully.”
“Happiness does not come from making money. It comes from spending it. Most people are doing otherwise.”
“I am often pushed to my limit, sometimes I even think I can't do it, but right after I finish I always think to myself "That wasn't so hard".”
“Blessed is the man whom realized the meaning of defeat, it will make him glorious”
“Learn to be Positive always. In pleasure or Pain, in Sun or Rain, in Loss or Gain, always be POSITIVE!”
“Trust to Transform. LET GO…like a Caterpillar that eventually turns into a beautiful Butterfly.”
“Giving love is the only Spirit that motivates our journey.
A spiritual journey is not measured by accomplishments, but buy happiness.
-Sandeep kumar Aggarwal”
“The best journeys bring happiness that in the beginning you didn't even know it was possible to feel.
-Sandeep kumar aggarwal”
“Smile all the While. Don't let miseries Pile! For life is just a Mile.”
“In times of desperation we become who we should be or who we don't want to be.”
“An injury teaches us about our body, a wound teaches us about love and loss teaches us about life.”
“You can't change until you have made a commitment with yourself.”
“Just settle down and scrutinize your identity to make out the minutiae of all the emotions you perform as a routine. And that's what constructs you to act. Believe in no technicalities and no fakeness.”
“Sky is not the limit if your heart is in it, for when you do something with all your heart, it just happens.”
“If you can withstand the resistance from the ones you call your own, you have already achieved the greater amount of success.”
“After failure, You must resolve to do whatever the object of your resolution is.”
“If you stumble, you get back up. If you fall off the wagon, you have the next go at it. And then the next. And the next. And the next.”
“Surrender is not an option, keep trying is the answer.”
“Keep trying is what it means to resolve to do something.”
“A FAILED RESOLUTION IS NOT THE FAULT OF RESOLUTIONS.”
“To be resolved to something is a reflection of your inner core, not the nature of resolving.”
“Never become impatient with the process, bored with the pace, frustrated at the meager results, just keep trying.”
“Life is a solitary confinement within requisite, coercion and inurement.”
“Dreams become regrets when left in the mind, never planted in the soil of action.”
“Never give up because when you give up, dreams get lost.”
“The dream provides inspiration and motivation. The goal generates drive and momentum. But daily effort on the details is the fuel that gets you to your dream.”
“Birds fly in the sky without the fear of fall. We too must have the Courage to take Risks and grow tall.”
“People should respect those who have the courage to go alone through life.”
“Challenges in and of themselves do nothing. But they create circumstances where growth can occur in ways it can’t while sailing in smoother waters.”
“As we go, we become more deeply committed to a life of purpose and meaning and personal decency as we come to feel a broader connection to the shared experience of humanity.”
“CHALLENGES SOFTEN OUR ROUGHER EDGES.”
“Through our trials and tribulations, our stint in the wilderness of our lives, if you will, we come face to face with our darker traits, do battle with them, and round off the rougher edges of our character in the process.”
“Don't ever let go, just keep on climbing.”
“Herding some good feelings today, with hope that one day, I will be a good shepherd of JOY.”
“If you didn't get good marks then, don't think you can't do anything.”
“Never take No for an answer, if you strongly believe Yes can be believed into existence.”
“Never take No for an answer if you strongly believe Yes can be persuaded to manifest.”
“Busy your mind with positive thinking & you will soon forget that negative events abound.”
“Armed with our beliefs there are so many life changing miracles we can make happen in life.”
“It takes years of sacrifice &toil for your talents to become gifts for humanity benefit.”
“Positive Power can inspire; Negative Power can perspire. Which power are you on?”
“There is only one skill which will get you through anything in life. The skill is patience”
“Dare to share for to Give is to truly Live.”
“Be prepared to change yourself if you think there is a need to change your environment.”
“A person with great knowledge is truly wealthy.”
“To speak eagerly is one thing, to act persistently is another matter entirely.”
“ Life is never been so easy at all times, But it's bit easy to understand this fact ”
“Life is mortal, but memories are immortal.”
“Those that live in fear are already easily defeated”
“Blessed is he who knows for sure when his opportunity has come.”
“Without beliefs we can do nothing,but with beliefs we can do all things.”
“All the suffering minds in the world cannot be compared to one mind reflecting positivity.”
“Don't Blame Others If you trust Them.”
“Its only the tough that can live through &overcome a tough situation.”
“We can't continue to think as peasants & expect to live lives of affluence.”
“One who begs is one who does not know they are full”
“Understanding that you don't know everything means you at least know something.”
“Understanding that you don't know everything means you at least know something.”
“Expect nothing and never be disappointed.”
“Expect nothing and never be disappointed.”
“Hate does more to you than you could ever do to that which you hate.”
“Hate does more to you than you could ever do to that which you hate.”
“You can think about life, or live without thinking.”
“You can think about life, or live without thinking.”
“Take life seriously and live carefree.”
“Take life seriously and live carefree.”
“Just because we have different interests doesn't make them any less interesting.”
“Just because we have different interests doesn't make them any less interesting.”
“Dwell on the present.”
“Dwell on the present.”
“Money doesn't grow on trees, but something much more valuable does.”
“Money doesn't grow on trees, but something much more valuable does.”
“Enlightenment: Not thinking you know but knowing you don't.”
“Live well and be spoiled by simplicity.”
“Nobody can steal your Peace of mind, but you can surely throw it away by letting negativity into your Life.”
“Do you earn for others to burn? Why not GIVE as you LIVE, so that when you die, the world will cry.”
“Life is not given to us just to ZOOM from WOMB to the TOMB. Slow down... Enjoy the Journey!”
“Through challenge and difficulty, we learn to see life differently than before.”
“The insights gathered from those relatively unique experiences can add wisdom to our own travels.”
“Knowing that you can endure a very difficult challenge offers a degree of confidence that the next challenge can also be endured.”
“We often don’t realise how much strength we have until challenged to use it. Once tested, we know how strong or weak we are.”
“CHALLENGES MAKE US RISE TO THE OCCASION.”
“Not only do our trials become classrooms that teach us life’s most profound lessons, they add joy and meaning to daily living.”
“Our trials are our greatest teachers, mentors and benefactors.”
“If you are not generous with a meager income, you will never be generous with
abundance.”
“Those who Discover the High Sea are the ones who are FREE to Be what they Want to Be.”
“Riches are within your reach if you reach for the rich resources within your rich mind.”
“We could solve all life's numerous problems if our thinking caps are laced with beliefs.”
“What I learned about life and equation. With addition, we grow, meet new friends, learn new experiences and lessons. Either or, if it'd be subtraction, multiplication, or division, it will all be according to laid choices of the expression.”
“You may have Limitations, but don't let the Limitations Limit you!”
“We all strong,we all bright,choice opportunity and discipline is what dectates our destiny.”
“Drawing is like meditating....with your body almost still and your mindi far far away.”
“Money is a very small fraction of my brain.”
“When you are young you are fast and strong,this pack of energy diminishes as you age and the third thing arise....EXPERIENCE.”
“I bilieve that flowers are good and fruits are better flowers.”
“I believe that the easiest way of saving money is to increase your working hours.”
“Don't wear a watch
You must decide Your own Time.”
“You mock me because you can't see what I see.”
“Life's irony;Most destinies are shut,because of mouths that have refused or are afraid to open up.”
“When I compare my Life with others who are less fortunate, I feel so blessed and grateful that I immediately stop complaining and start Living with Joy and Gratitude.”
“Just because your critics hate you doesn't mean you need to hate you too. Give yourself a lot of second chances. Believe in your ability to figure it out.”
“Change is an acute consciousness of a problem, a fundamental understanding of its roots, the audacity to challenge it and the zeal to see it through.”
“Setbacks are to be replied with a push back and not a sit back”
“If you are not Happier than someone, you can’t be Wealthier than him. True Wealth is the Joy that comes from being Content with what you have.”
“Just allow the one way you so depend upon to close & many other ways will miraculously open up.”
“The more space we create for machinery, the little space we leave for life.”
“If a man's thoughts constantly says riches,I tell you poverty idea is doomed in his life.”
“I’d rather live one year with Love, Peace & Joy, than live 10 years with Worry, Anxiety & Hatred. It is not how long I live but how well I live.”
“Your smile is your best makeup.”
“Let your Creed be to do a Good Deed. When your Focus is on your Need instead of your Greed, you will succeed.”
“«Those who don't fear the burns of fate manage to walk through its flames» -LEAL”
“If you learn from it, it's not a mistake. It's a lesson...”
“Just because your critics hate you doesn't mean you need to hate you too. Give yourself a lot of second chances. Believe in your ability to figure it out.”
“To have dominion over today learn to subject each thinking hour of the day under your dominion.”
“The Principle Of Taking Help Is Helping In advance”
“Draw what you love, and people will love what you draw.”
“He is Perfecting my Imperfections and making Beauty of my Past, What I have done in the past shall not and Will not define who I am and who I will be further on in life.”
“When we are at rest, pain comes to give us a test. But remember, pain is only a guest that will soon leave our nest.”
“I have always grown stronger out of a trouble, more resilient than ever before.”
“Anybody can Earn and Die, leaving a will and legacy. Only the courageous ones can give away all they have while they are Alive.”
“To succeed, we must overcome the little voice in our head that’s telling us to stop and turn around; don’t quit and find out later that the endpoint was just around the next bend.”
“Be humble yet not timid, you are what you express not who you impress”
“Do what is good by your heart and soul. If you don't feel it, then it probably isn't good or meant to pursue”
“Do what you think you cannot, for it will keep you driven for a lifetime”
“Never look back because today may be the last ride you ever take...”
“If that's the best that you can be, perhaps you're better off a memory...”
“We all have a time and place, we would return to in the blink of an eye...”
“A work can be difficult, but can't be impossible.”
“If I do not Know and Grow More in Love Today with God then The Gift of Today is Wasted.”
“The amount of happiness in a relationship can be cut to size by the amount of freewill shared between partners.”
“I believe we were all born for something far much more creative than education, work, debt and death.”
“I don't go for perfection, I go for profitablility”
“Leadership is you helping everyone else get across the finish line ahead of you.”
“Regarding quality, the following rule is very important: do each activity right at the first time with the aim of saving money and time. Regardless of the process under consideration, the activities that were carried out badly may cause repetitions with considerable additional costs.”
“Inspiration moves one from Pessimism to Optimism, from Doubt to Faith, from Despair to Hope, and from Darkness to Light!”
“Belief is the conscience of success.”
“It is necessary that we make the world a better place; we don't know who, what or where we'll be reborn.”
“Destiny was with you as you took your first breath, followed you every second of your life and it will be with you when you take your last breath. But destiny will not follow you into the afterlife. Your life was its only destiny and destiny was only yours in your life...”
“A fathers little girl will grow up one day and continue the legacy she learned from him...”
“As a bird takes flight, there is no fear of falling. Its is a bird and birds fly. You are a human and humans cant fly but we have taken flight. Humans were given the ability to conquer anything. What are you waiting for?”
“People don’t have Guts to leave their Ruts because of their ''Buts''.”
“When asked why, i just reply... WHY NOT?”
“Never blame your yesterday, for today is a vantage opportunity to amend yesterday's mistakes.”
“Never blame your yesterday,for today is another opportunity to begin afresh.”
“We can all be certain that we don't loose anything daily by losing time, because we all get older and gain a memory”
“When it comes to choose I and You...Choose you”
“If hero's are people just like you and me, that means we can all be heroes...”
“We all have heroes, some stay longer then just summertime...”
“Leadership is you helping everyone else get across the finish line ahead of you.”
“I could say.. Been there, done that and got the t-shirt. But i'm not here for just one t-shirt...”
“A woman was counting her grams of gold in Sorrow while another, who had nothing, still counted her Blessings in Joy. Happiness is not what you HAVE, but how you FEEL.”
“An Icon has the ability to change your life, even if they have never met you...”
“The staircase to your heart was not easy to climb. Our triumph over the hardship throughout the years has not been easy. Loving you for the rest of eternity my Angel, now that will be easy...”
“The biggest gift a human can have is not money, in fact it is life.”
“Age is just a number, unless you make it a limitation”
“Choices are critical because they make us who we are...”
“When choosing to be inspired by a collaborative genius, your soul needs to be soothed by their hand crafted melodies...”
“We all have a love for something, its what we love that ultimately sets us apart...”
“The power to make tomorrow flourish is by having absolute belief in today.”
“I hold it all within, so i am never without...”
“Nobody cares if you're miserable so you might as well be happy.”
“I live my life to the Power of "E.X.T.R.E.M.E." but i can multiply it by whatever is on the table...”
“We are always trying to unlock the mysteries of life, maybe the search for mystery is what keeps us going...”
“THE SIZE OF YOUR GOAL DETERMINES HOW MUCH YOU PUT IN TO ACHIEVE IT.”
“Maybe tomorrow things will be clearer, because things are always clearer after you've been unconscious for a few hours...”
“What a paradox! People hate to be miserable but choose to be miserable. Remember this the next time misery arrives.”
“Time to start loving what you hate, because you cant hate what you love...”
“You have an icon ready to back you, anytime anywhere. All you have to do is press the play button...”
“When i didn't pass anyone, i thought i was running the race of life alone. Then i realised i was in first place...”
“As children we are taught to count in order, stand in order and to live by order. If chaos and disorder is how the universe ticks by daily, perhaps being part of order is why our lives are such a struggle...”
“Be positive about all the negatives.”
“Be positive about all the negatives.”
“We don't know what consciousness is, so we cannot replicate or move it from one host to another...”
“Every new day you witness is an opportunity to impact another.”
“I find myself looking at the ocean, and thinking of you. I have wondered if at that moment you are thinking of me. Then i feel your fingers tighten in mine, as our eyes meet. I lean in to kiss you, i can see in your eyes you're always thinking of me...”
“Love is the strongest emotion and always will be, so let Love lead your life and let your life lead your Love...”
“Because my soul marches to the beat of an Icon Army, does not mean i am at war. It simply means that if there was a war, i would have the anthem...”
“Sometimes this is how it is...that time doesn't want to know about the work done but work done does.”
“There are always missing parts on collecting pieces and these should be filled with your brain”
“What is the Power that transcends one from Achievement to Fulfillment? The Power of Inspiration! #Inspiration #Motivation #Achievement”
“When minutes are replaced by breaths and your heartbeat is all you hear, you will need to press your passion until your heart becomes the breath that pushes you through...”
“Your future will depend on past lessons you've learned...”
“Negative people don't need to be defeated. They defeat themselves with their Negative Attitude. Be POSITIVE always.”
“A lot of earthly miracles are hiding under the beautiful wings of belief.”
“You never need to pray for riches,for the mind within you is a rich mind,just use it productively.”
“Give man enough water to drink,food to eat,space & time to think,he will tremendously impact the world.”
“How shall we continue to dwell with impossibilities & expect possibilities to flourish in our lives?”
“Reaching the top was a daily struggle, maintaining your place at the top will be a life long struggle...”
“Don't get lost in life, get lost in love...”
“You have been crowned with honor and glory stop being a beggar and crawling before men.”
“Its not about where you begin, but rather where your minds potential begins...”
“When i see how amazing my mother is with all her grandchildren, i realise how patient and understanding she must have been to raise me...”
“As Christians we should believe that the invisible things are more powerful than the visible things.”
“The joy of the Lord should not be taken by what we have or don’t have.”
“How we feel should be determined by the invisible things and not the visible and material things.”
“Christians should see situation in a Word view and not in the world view.”
“The invisible things are supposed to be the reason for our joy.”
“Our world view should be on the invisible things, things of eternal values.”
“In a crazy world full of the unknown, you will need two things... Your Gun and My Chemical Romance as a backing tune for your adventure...”
“Only love can inspire us to take brave, radical actions for those who are still in darkness, to salvage our neighbors and our countries”
“The best portion of a good man's life is in his little nameless, unremembered acts
of kindness and of love.”
“We give our lives to you daily, don't take our lives from us...”
“To communicate, today you need is only a heart and a thought if not you don't even talk to the people around you.”
“Life is all about where you are, there you are.”
“There ain't no easy way to work hard”
“Nothing big is born big.”
“Every big thing we see always start small.”
“There is nothing that is big today that was born big.”
“Doing the right thing means you have the right attitude too.”
“Our children won't be young forever, but to us they will be forever young...”
“I have wondered if world changers had any idea of the impact their vision would have on humanity. Maybe it was the vision of their vision that drove them to alter the world as we know it...”
“Uncommon passion begets uncommon success.”
“The dawn of a new day signifies hope.”
“Today like any other day i woke up and stared life in the face. Something was different, today i could see the fear of defeat on life's face...”
“Your passion can be measured by success, the more passionate you are the more determined you will be to succeed...”
“Life is short with room for mistakes, just don't let mistakes take up too much room...”
“Life moves forward, maybe you should do the same...”
“When the odds are stacked against you, flip them over and use them as stepping stones...”
“Beauty is not a mindset, its how you set that beautiful mind...”
“Be Content, but never be Satisfied. Let there be an Aspiration in total Surrender.”
“Walking down a certain road is the best method to realize how challenging it could be.”
“Don't be afraid to study hard: knowledge never exhausts the mind.”
“Only knowledge and truth may result in freedom of mind.”
“To become strong, analyse yourself first. You must detect your weaknesses to overcome them.”
“El amor es la metamorfosis
de nuestras emociones
serás feliz si te respetas
en tu evolución.”
“Managers can use power, money or certain circumstances to achieve short-term results. However, motivation is crucial for achieving long-term results.”
“Motivating employees to work at their full potential is the main premise of successful management.”
“An incompetent person in a responsible position may cause huge damage. Such a person should act less and think more.”
“The mind of a man is a twisted place, with many roads and many destinations...”
“Summoning the beard growth fairy, will take determination and a shit load of lights...”
“...at the end we will find the winner by different standard.”
“Life is about doos and donts...the more precise you are the better”
“Doing the right thing means you have the right attitude too.”
“You must have fun. You must get it done. But don’t just run and run and run. For, life is a journey, not a destination.”
“Your mind was the canvas on which you wrote the next era in music. But it was that same mind that took the decision to leave us. Wherever you are, know you are missed...”
“Job opportunities are like fishing lines, they lead to a stranger that may or may not release you...”
“Knowledge can always be used for good and evil, but to deny it altogether is the ultimate sin”
“The fire that burns inside your soul, creates the light within your eyes...”
“There were times i was sure and i tried, then times i was not sure and i never tried...”
“Everything will reveal itself in time, but have you got the time to wait for the big reveal...”
“you will get more then 100 chances in your life it's just up to you how many you wanna take advantage of.”
“We imagine the day will never come, our loved one's will always be a message, a call or a visit away. But that day will eventually come and when it does, your messages, calls and visits will be gone forever. Use the time you have to say the things that you need too say...”
“The only time we've got in our hands to impact the Universe forever & for good is Today.”
“I have chosen my road, i am prepared to take my chances...”
“No matter how civilised I may get, sometimes it becomes important to leave courtesy behind.”
“The magic is there, and you don't need to be a child to see it...”
“I have never needed anyone's approval, i decide what i want and i go and get it...”
“Leave your Legacy on earth when you leave, to continue changing lives when you no longer can..”
“Why be fearful? Why let fear win? Why not take the same energy and become fearless!”
“Don't look outside yourself for excuses; look inside yourself for solutions.”
“Life's irony;Suffering or enjoyment may not last forever.”
“Do you have a clear Direction of Life or are you merely floating down the river of Life like a dead fish?”
“Blessed is he that sharpens his knife even when there is no animal to slaughter.”
“You will be given a chance to change the world, be sure not to miss the opportunity because it could be disguised as an insignificant act...”
“Only you have the power to change everything, or nothing...”
“Who says your best friend needs to be a human...”
“Make your choices wisely, improve the world one thought at a time..”
“To hear is human. To listen with one's heart is divine.”
“You can't uproot the stumps in life that you've tripped over. You may plant new seeds, but only then will you realize the stumps are still the root of growth.”
“I'm the kind of crazy no one can deal with, but no one can live without...”
“The hard way of doing what is right is always the best way.”
“The hard way of doing what is right is always preferable.”
“Your fate can never change you, only you have the power to change your fate...”
“Thrashing sounds shred the air not once or twice, but thrice. Grinding airwaves into fine lines for spine numbing absorption. Clenched fists activate your glazed rushing eyes. The feeling you love and need, ripples in and floods your mind. These crushed anthems are your way of life, the only way to feed your ravished soul...”
“Inspiration could be your caged inner self facing an unlocked gate, be it by chance or by masterful design, running free remains your choice”
“Another word for recession is recessopportunity.”
“A real man willing to stand by you through thick and thin take care of a kid that's not even his willing to take you with the baggage you came with. Cry when he see you sad,and adore every moment when your happy don't want to change nothing about you. willing to fight your battle no question ask love everything about you, and also what you have came with.accept you for who you or and willing to change nothing about you!! THE DEFINITION OF A REAL MAN.”
“Recession is opportunity to look inward & opportunity to launch out with audacity.”
“Recession is opportunity to re-access your potentials for some & opportunity to let your potentials go into recess for others.”
“One can never live a mediocre life if one's life baggages is filled with the material called positive beliefs.”
“The ants accomplish so much because,they have learnt the art of working together to achieve a common goal.”
“The difference between: "Let's just go! and "Just let go."”
“If you think of what others think of you, you will become that. Rather, be what you want to be! -RVM”
“We were faster then the wind, wilder then the sunset and crazier then the morning dew. We maybe apart for now but let's continue our pact, I will stay strong in this life, you will stay strong in the next...”
“Is it possible to choose your reaction to whatever happens? Yes, it is. Reaction is a CHOICE and we must consciously cultivate the habit of reacting Positively.”
“If your friends come from way back when, they will probably be friends to the very end...”
“If unlimited positive beliefs is your best friend,then the future generation shall never forget your name.”
“No man who focuses on
the success of yesterday achieves
great success today.”
“The man with the winning
attitude is the one who tells himself
at the beginning that: "I am not
starting to stop on the way,
but to finish.””
“To attain the success you
desire, you must first overcome the
challenges you encounter.”
“Don't let your dreams drown in an ocean full of doubt”
“If you don’t believe in
yourself, you will never discover
your ultimate potential.”
“My life is a fraction of what was there, but fractions are part of something bigger...
Dedicated to my amazing niece Zanda-lee Killian”
“Move on! Move on! Don't let anything Stop you. Go on and make your Dreams come true.”
“You know you have reached maturity when you finally decide to stop paying for the consequences of your foolish decisions.”
“Life, is a chess game you win or loose, but just keep playing.”
“Start each day with an act of Kindness. Make someone’s day, and by doing so make your own.”
“When you are the writer of your story, the end depends on you, not on fate...”
“How to live life;Simply live the life you believe in & not the one another believes about you,because it's your life.”
“I believe in success because, belief is the conscience of success.”
“There aren't a million types of people in the world but a million worlds inside the single you.”
“To be happy, find out what is making you unhappy and change that. Reverse, RE-CHOICE and REJOICE!”
“Happiness is a drug, ...get addicted.”
“Never be discouraged,prepare daily for your opportunity,for when it comes like a thief in the night,grab it with your whole being.”
“You must get dirty in the trenches to come out with loyal soldiers”
“Gratitude turns disappointment into lessons learned, discoveries made, alternatives explored, and new plans set in motion.”
“For the grateful, there is no room for disappointment; Each moment offers life.”
“No matter your status and wealth if you don't know humility and respect for others whether rich or poor, you're still a nobody”
“Those who are truly grateful are deeply moved by the privilege of living.”
“The single greatest cause of happiness is gratitude.”
“When we admire beautiful things do we ever consider how much was endured to become so beautiful...”
“Remember, how you live your Life is far more important than how much you earn. Life soon ends. What matters is whether you enjoyed Life and Lived meaningfully.”
“I don't know about you but my greatest desire, passion and dream in life is to be like my earthly father Elder Obisike Wokeh and my heavenly father and Lord Jesus Christ the two most humble and caring people I know all my life.”
“We should never give failure & mediocrity a chance to succeed by allowing them occupy beyond 5% of our thought lives.”
“Obstacles tend to intensify their opposition at the sight of an intending breakthrough.”
“No soul can prevent man from believing that which he dims fit to believe in.”
“Success can never be initiated into life,if belief is not invited to partake.”
“If i was to choose life, life would be my choice. If i was to choose death, i would probably already be dead...”
“To master your enemy, is to master their mind. Once you own their mind, you own them...”
“You dread the darkness because there is no light, but the absence of light should be the last thing on your mind...”
“Are you at the beginning of your life or the very end? You will never know, so make every second count...”
“For every winner there is a loser, for every loser there is another chance at victory...”
“No matter how busy you are, No matter in which position you are, No matter what situation life gives you but dont lost smile. Because of your smile you makes life more beautiful. Keep Smiling Always.”
“Great pressure turns coal into diamond... Or crushes it into a powder to be blown away in the wind.”
“I am that friend who comes back for you in a fiery building, but i am also that friend who will set you on fire if you betray me...”
“In a perfect world it would be you and me against the world. But we are not living in a perfect world so the two of us against the world is not possible...”
“Small victories are won by taking big chances.”
“To live peacefully just look up into the sky and watch how the clouds drift in total acceptance. Instantly, you shall find Peace.”
“When the toughest of problems strike me, I just remind myself that God is on my side.”
“Success belongs to only the hardworking.”
“The great positively use the word belief to their advantage,but the mediocre negatively use it to their disadvantage.”
“"Cowards give criminals their reputation" by Mumbere Samuel Dolson”
“Learn to quantify quality”
“Words ordinary as it may sound,but the wise know how to use this ordinary material to propel their destinies.”
“Allowing the mind have unfettered access to positively express itself, will lead to a life of accessible success.”
“The most fruitful event that can emanate out of today is to have hope for a better tomorrow.”
“We choose to do things that make us Cry. We don't know Why? We blame the Sky. We do not Try. Oh My! What a way to Die!!!”
“My hand fits yours and it feels right. My eyes meet yours and my heart takes flight. Our journey begins over coffee and the shimmering sun light...”
“The solution to life's numerous problems are not found inside any religion,rather they are found inside the religion called the mind.”
“If you think of what others think of you, you will become that. Rather, be what you want to be!”
“Friends will probably attend your funeral or wake. But all your true friends can't, they're freaking busy seeking the Dragonballs to revive you!!”
“There were times in my life i thought for sure the end was near. But it was only the end of that time and the beginning of the next...”
“If the road to success was easy, the entire world would be successful and it wouldn't be successful any longer...”
“I am a microscopic speck on the surface of a ping pong ball yet I am the whole universe.”
“Amidst the confusion of accepting what is DESTINED and creating a DESTINY, always remember that any thought that crosses your mind might become become a MOMENT you may or may not want to witness, so be careful what you think or wish for.”
“There is a difference between being damaged and being broken. Being damaged means a flaw remains underlying that does not allow for normal functionality, whereas being broken means the designed function has ceased. With the time, effort, and care, one who is broken can be fully restored. That which is damaged will attempt to hide the flaws and not accept restoration. Only the truly broken will be restored!”
“Do not allow others to abort your dreams. Follow your passion. Do so passionately and without apology!”
“If repeatedly help is not coming your way,your destiny is simply saying you must find help in your ideas & then become a great fountain of help unto others.”
“The more disappointment & failure you encounter in life the better,for when you gather all,they become veritable materials for a smooth ride towards perfection & success.”
“Life's Irony;The world doesn't want you to advance beyond their reasoning,until you use subtle blackmail & mean aggression.”
“Struggling through my life has brought me to my knees over a hundred times, but it's taught me that the more you are on your knees the more you appreciate having legs to get right back up and keep walking...”
“Many people keep going round in circles. In the end, they find they are where they started.”
“Creator is Good, In the Good, and Especially in the Bad times.”
“A man's right is a man's life”
“To be Happier, Healthier, and Wealthier choose a Positive Mental Attitude. React and respond Positively. That’s the biggest wealth of life.”
“The mind is the processing ground where every act of possibility is milled to reality.”
“Possibility can never exist if the mind does not recognize it.”
“If you burn someone's writing, you will burn someone's knowledge.”
“The Ghost's of your yesterday are knocking at your door, they want to give you back the key to your life...”
“If this was the last quote i ever wrote, i'd want you to know that writing this took everything from me. Now go and change everything, starting today regret nothing. You already have the greatest gift which is life, make every second count...”
“I have been where i have been, nothing i can do about it. But it's time to stand where i stand and fight this fight...”
“Whatever we do in Life, let us not forget to enjoy it. Life is a Gift and will soon end. We may have Goals and Aspirations, but we must enjoy every Moment of Life.”
“Whoever loves above all the approach of love will never know the joy of attaining it.”
“Jealousy, the only way people doubt you when your bettering yourself for a future”
“You feel alive to the degree that you can help.”
“Those who have FAITH believe that the Sun will Rise. They don’t wake up in the morning and look out to see if the sun has failed them.”
“The person who is inspired by good thoughts can accomplish all his vows successfully. ”
“Living is easy but life is not always easy.”
“When things becomes unbearable & frustrating,the easiest things to do is to quit,but the wise continually persist until success beckons.”
“Recession is never potent enough to hinder a man with compelling vision,rather it will serve as his tonic for advancement.”
“Only time will tell. Luckily, time goes on.”
“An idea occurs in the mind, where it is confined and useless. An idea lives when it leaves the mind.”
“If you cannot solve a problem, ask someone who knows.”
“Good managers don't set a goal to increase efficiency, but rather an implementation of business process improvements that result in higher efficiency as well.”
“To those who say that it is a waste of time to reinvent the wheel, remind them of a time when wheels lacked tires.”
“A happy man doesn't reconsider life.”
“In my opinion, the author-level metric can distort a real author's citation impact. For example, an author who has an h-index = 2 obtained on the basis of two published papers of which each is cited twenty times is more influential than an author who has an h-index = 3 obtained on the basis of three published papers of which each is cited three times.”
“Death is certain. Nobody can escape it. Then why fear death? Live till you die!”
“Sometimes, in order to build ourselves up, we must let go.”
“Acquiring knowledge is the most fruitful effort.”
“"Success is mainly the result of hard work.”
“Sleep is my best friend, When it embraces me no Problem of life can Bother me...!”
“You'll always remember the moment when you're present in the moment.”
“In life, don't treat difficulties as problems; treat them as challenges.”
“If the sunrise stays beautiful, i will have a reason to wake up everyday...”
“Contemplating the reason for life is difficult, i prefer to admire it's wonder and beauty...”
“I may be holding on by a thread, but that's all I need!”
“Each failure is a valley on our way up the mountain of life”
“One who lives with Faith says IT WILL HAPPEN, while the one who lives without it asks WILL IT HAPPEN?”
“Dreams can be your light in the dark and can shelter you from the rain. Dreams can lift you to the highest places and guide you through the lowest. Dreams are magical because they are only a thought a way and are uniquely yours. All you have to do is reach for your dreams, they will be there waiting for you... 'Dedicated to my amazing daughter Johane Smit'”
“When the gods blesses a man,he grants him the capacity to think deep & long,he also enable man to extract meaning out of meaningless situations.”
“Anytime you don't get what you want out of life,don't see it as a moment to get frustrated,but see it as an opportunity to learn.”
“Don't give up on your dreams,for your dreams can only exist in the persistence realm.”
“What is Fulfillment? Fulfillment is being Blissfully Content...with Pleasure and Peace… with Calmness and Courage…with Joy and Love.”
“Dreams have a way of protecting man,because nature will say,this dream will be beneficial to humanity,hence the dreamer must not die now.”
“The addiction to thinking is so dangerous.We don't even realise we are doing it.”
“There is only a thin line separating morning from afternoon,yesterday from today,last year from this year & dreams from reality,but to get to the other realm of destiny you need a little force of determination.”
“We see a dentist for our teeth.
A doctor if we are poorly.
A hairdresser to look after our hair.
...why do we not look after our mental health?”
“Our relationships should bring people to God not anywhere.”
“What follows minority will soon be followed by majority”
“Do your work and with enthusiasm and inspiration and you will have victory in all your battles”
“If your present work is not excited and inspiring to you, then it’s not for you”
“It's not about embracing technology anymore... It's about *Mastering* it”
“When someone influences you to think negatively, they take Charge of your Life and will lead you to Destruction.”
“A wise man doesn't start what he doesn't know to do.”
“Concerning mistakes, follow three simple rules. Firstly, correct a mistake that you made whenever it is possible. Secondly, don't repeat the same mistakes. Thirdly, learn from past mistakes”
“God created every person for happiness, joy and prosperity”
“God promises prosperity to those who carry out His goal of establishing the laws of justice and establishing the kingdom of God on this earth”
“Happiness is a heavenly emotion, it is the atmosphere of the kingdom of God”
“Monologues suck dialogues work.”
“A nice stretch and a deep breath, a cup of tea is all you need to boost your happiness and to create your own bliss.”
“True Champions only emerge when they give up the good of what they want for what is best for others!”
“Don’t Live Life as if you are meant to exist, many people do so. Instead, choose to Live as if Life is a Celebration.”
“Darkness cannot survive in light. But a light can shine in the dark”
“The next time you think something's too good to be true, remember - so's electricity and sewerage!”
“You don't need to get what you want, to be happy; but you do need to be happy, to get what you want"”
“When you change what you believe, you change what you do, which changes what you get.”
“Be relentless in your compassion, for it is your power.”
“In order to love others, you need to be full of it yourself”
“There is nothing more powerful against negativity, than sustained compassion”
“Interested? Good enough; but to get there you gotta be committed.”
“Why waste Life trying to have more than what we need. Why not rather Enjoy Life by using what we have.”
“Most poor can never become rich because,they dare not yield their minds unto riches.”
“Hopelessness is not the presence of doubt, but it is the absence of hope to conquer the doubts.”
“The basic ingredient required for a successful life's venture is a richly inspired mind.”
“The essence of coexistence is quite simple: live and respect how others live.”
“Conquer your dreams in your mind & your dreams will conquer the universe on your behalf.”
“Knowledge can be acquired by education, reading, communicating and observing, but also simply by living.”
“A True friend see's the first tear, stops the second, and prevents the third.”
“Follow the siren's call, and you'll probably end up in the hospital.”
“Decency is the attribute of real men.”
“Life is the opportunity to be rewarded for being yourself.”
“Those who live by the sword have close shaves.”
“Hell is full of idiots who traded away the infinite for the high end of the finite, a devil's bargain.”
“Even one day lost in misery is a great loss, for the day will never come back again. You lose 24 hours of Happiness, Joy & Bliss. Live each day in Happiness.-RVM”
“Be different differently.”
“When the aroused meets the impregnable for lunch, who picks up the check?”
“Mediocrity wants to be your friend. Be unfriendly.”
“The license to be awful is the ticket to being good.”
“God did not like the idea of mistakes, and so He created variety.”
“Fair is not fare, not in this life.”
“The unbalanced are more at home with life's twists and turns.”
“There's only one of you in the world. Make your name heard (in a good way) Give people a reason to say, "Hey, i know _____" or "Have you heard of ____ ?"”
“Danger is your safety belt in the world you need to live in.”
“One way to solve a problem is to give it a different dress; another way is to send it on an errand; a third way is to blow it out of proportion.”
“Wisdom: How to how to.”
“Technology is not evolving anymore, technology IS evolution”
“God is not constrained by the limits of our understanding.”
“Truth has nutritional value.”
“Is a feeling of meaningfulness an adequate price for one's soul?”
“Gravity and lethargy have come to my birthday party.”
“Whose importance is most important?”
“The edges of my world are sharp, and they cut.”
“The spark of a near-miss and the spark of a near-hit were once wed, and lived happily ever after.”
“People are so busy making money that they forget they will leave it all behind. When we depart, we only take with us the good we do in this world.”
“If not for the dreamers and Visionaries . . .
The risk takers and adventurers . . .
Who would inspire our souls to
achieve greatness in the world . . .
And challenge our spirits to
achieve the seemingly
impossible.”
“The condition of uncertainty drives the wheel of development”
“To leave your Legacy, you must treat your family better than you would a stranger.”
“OPPORTUNITIES don’t wait. Either you USE them or you LOSE them.”
“Every day has its own cereal box prize.”
“Exercise effortlessness.”
“Don't ever let one moment take anything away from another.”
“Some people max out their credit cards; others, their needs.”
“If someone wants to give you something, you shouldn't take that away from them.”
“Any movement toward solution gathers energy; any movement away from solution depletes energy. Act accordingly.”
“A dead end is the only way out of where you shouldn't be going.”
“When you're empty, go with empty.”
“Moments are like gas, they pass.”
“Will you treat people who make you miserable as prison guards, or travel agents?”
“If you pretend to be you, you will inevitably be unmasked.”
“Do not reduce me to an understanding. I am more than that.”
“Be soft, be kind, be warm -- you'll be happy.”
“If you can't do your best, don't. Do even better.”
“Will today be a round in a boxing match, or a walk in the park?”
“Problems are the furniture of life.”
“Is prayer a LOCAL or LONG DISTANCE call?”
“Why be a phony, when you can be the real thing?”
“Cheap pleasures cost a lot.”
“We are bound by everything -- even by thoughts of being unbound.”
“Even when ignored or denied, truth is the ultimate reference point.”
“You have to take off your beliefs if you want to see the naked truth.”
“Enthusiasm builds Faith; Enthusiasm generates Hope; Enthusiasm is a Power that will make you cope!”
“Progress can never persist if fear prevails over faith.”
“Tomorrow will be the mirror of the kind of thoughts that have shapen today.”
“If you are always inspired to think lack,then be prepared to live with uninspiring lack for life.”
“If your faith becomes weak in the days of adversity,then be prepared for a long fight with adversity.”
“Hopelessness will continue to persist in our lives if we treat hope with disdain &contempt.”
“He who despises a poor beginning will have to keep fantasizing about being rich forever.”
“Every day believing makes your belief system to be more formidable.”
“Failure is welcome in my life,for it prepares the ground for a smooth ride unto success.”
“Vision doesn't usually come as a lightening bolt. Rather it comes as a slow
crystallization of life challenges that we one day recognize as a beautiful diamond
with great value to ourselves and others.”
“Saying of these eyes, which can see the whole sky at a glance, but not even a person after seeing many eyes.”
“Loneliness is not about when you alone...it's about while you with people and then you alone......”
“Time flies, history is made.We don't see the value, until it fades”
“Why regret that I lived miserably yesterday. Rather, why not commit and resolve to live Happily Today?”
“Every day has 1440 minutes. Each minute is an opportunity to be unhappy or to Rejoice, to waste or to Value Life, or to just exist or Make a Difference.”
“People think differently about Life after Death; some agree and some disagree. But everyone agrees that Death is certain. The challenge is TO LIVE before we die.”
“Your connection to yourself is also your connection to the divine. The more you are connected to yourself, the more you are connected to the divine. They are one and the same.””
“When we make a habit of expressing love and gratitude our world expands into something beautiful.”
“On rare occasion we are granted the gift of seeing how far we have come; just how much we have healed and how really free we are. Never again will we underestimate our ability to rise.”
“That deep longing you keep dismissing as impractical may be the very thing your soul is calling you to do.”
““A regular meditation practice is one of the highest forms of self love.””
““Think of the air you breathe as love. Changes everything””
““Being human is a portal into your divinity.””
““Sometimes the only thing we can do for people is pray.””
““At some point on the spiritual journey, saying “I am human” stops being an apology and turns into a deep reverence and knowing.””
“Don't think about the problem, be the problem.”
““We don’t always get what we want, but often something better happens and we become the person we always wanted to be.”
“Once you are in alignment with your life purpose; there will be a knowing in your heart that is so strong; that it will let you know you have found your true calling. This will provide you will all the energy you need to fulfill your mission.””
““Diversity enriches the soul. It is at the very essence of the life experience.””
““As events beyond my control unfold. I go within to find peace.””
““There comes a time to speak your truth and the time is now.””
““Follow the truth and you will never get lost.””
““I always have the time, room and energy for more love””
““Don’t be afraid of emptiness. Emptiness is divine. Let the divine fill up the space in a way that’s really right for you. “Trying to fill it up too soon, blocks your gifts.””
“Sometimes I wake up in the middle of the night and immediately all my biggest fears start running through my mind. I wonder if my fears will one day be my new reality. The fears seem so real. I struggle to shift my focus. Then slowly I realize that my fears are devoid of any love and only love is real.”
““As I align with the Universal Energy of love I feel fully supported.””
“Prayer may not change our outer circumstances but inwardly it can change everything.”
““Are you busy proving your worth or living it? A critical distinction.””
““Helping professionals, Therapists, Life Coaches, Healers can greatly assist you in changing your life for the better, but they pale in comparison to the power that’s gained from you developing a relationship with yourself. It’s you that holds the power for change.””
“Loneliness doesn’t come from missing someone it comes from being disconnected from yourself.”
“Make love and kindness toward yourself and others a lifestyle and not a special event.”
“Opportunities to share love and compassion are all around us. Its going to take and army of compassionate people to heal our world. How will you show yours?”
“Be careful not to censor yourself to fit a certain situation or group of people. When we start to censor ourselves we can easily censor ourselves right out of our lives.”
““I am now ready to let go of anyone or anything that prevents me from being me.”
“Many of us learned to repress our creativity. We were told it was secondary to more important skills. The good news is that many of us have untapped gifts just wating to be expressed. You owe it to yourself to uncover and express your gifts”
“Love: the great connector. Stay connected”
“Gratitude is food for a weary soul”
“Thank you to all the people who have triggered my issues. You have helped me clarify what they are, start the healing process and ultimately become a better person.”
“People who have stepped fully into their power know they don’t have to push or force things; they know that real power comes from surrender.”
“34.	If its almost right its wrong. Pay attention to your hesitation
35.	In moments when I am fully connected to my heart; I really do love everyone.
36.	Your authenticity is the gateway to all good things
37.	When pretending starts, growth stops
We are here for the evolution of our soul. This evolution happens through the mangagement of both the ups and downs of physical life. Evolution is halted by pretending to be happy all the time.”
“If its almost right its wrong. Pay attention to your hesitation”
“In moments when I am fully connected to my heart; I really do love everyone.”
“Your authenticity is the gateway to all good things”
“When pretending starts, growth stops
We are here for the evolution of our soul. This evolution happens through the mangagement of both the ups and downs of physical life. Evolution is halted by pretending to be happy all the time.”
“We are here for the evolution of our soul. This evolution happens through the mangagement of both the ups and downs of physical life. Evolution is halted by pretending to be happy all the time.”
“I remain in a state of surrender knowing the Universe is supporting me in creating a life I love”
“Once you realize the magic of life is really inside you; its impossible not to see it outside as well”
“Compassion can be learned through example.”
“If you think you have to step outside your integrity to realize your dream; how much can you really believe it.”
“Stillness is always waiting for you to reconnect to it; to know the truth once again”
“In a Universe with infinite possibilities, we don’t need to have our hearts set on just one.”
“I show up for my fellow man by sharing my inner wealth. I generously give out compassion and acceptance wherever I go”
“Love just feels like the truth”
“At any time you can decide to live a life that says “I love myself””
“The practice of gratitude can soften a difficult situation”
“Love: always inclusive, never divisive.”
“If we truly knew someone’s entire life story and all the things they have been through we would drop all jealousy and comparison. We would admire their ability to shine”
“We are all at different places in our healing process. Do not become invested in getting someone who is not yet where you are to understand you. They truly cannot hear you”
“Life is pushing you toward love”
“The mindset of the rich;I need to accumulate beliefs & make them more potent to be able to make impact in life.”
“You cannot fix, nor are you responsible for another persons low self esteem.”
“Creativity is one of your greatest gifts. It resides deep inside you impacting every thought. It is attached to a never ending source and is one of the main aspects of who you are. Your very essence is as a creator. No one creates exactly like you do. Your thoughts and actions color the world”
“Beyond the pain, anger and unforgiveness, there is only one thing; love. This is where the magic happens”
“You simply cannot know the depth of your magnificence without the contrast of life.”
“Today I make time to release any burdens I carry. One by one, I release them into the atmosphere, until my body is in a complete state of calm”
“Sometimes all that’s left is faith”
“The Universe cares more about your empowerment and freedom from fear than it does just about anything. It’s really true.”
“When we finally become present in our lives, its as if we are seeing things for the first time.”
“Your heart will always open again; if you let it.”
“In a seemingly dark and troubled world, there are hundreds and thousands of lightworkers, standing strong, refusing to dim their lights. Look for the light workers they are all around you. Follow them back to the light”
“To ensure health in mind, body and spirit, increase giving and receiving love.”
“If you truly want the Universe to support you in becoming all you can be; be prepared for having any false supports removed from your life; leaving you standing as the warrior that you are.”
“Lift your spirits by practicing random acts of kindness”
“If you put gratitude at the center of your life, one day you will find it has completely taken over”
“We all struggle. It’s just that some of us struggle out loud and some of us don’t”
“Choosing to interpret all of your experiences from a place of love will allow you to strengthen and empower yourself while moving closer to the divine light.”
“It’s so free to know that I do not have to compensate or make excuses for being treated poorly in relationships. I can simply move forward knowing I deserve better.”
“Self love is number one. As you radiate it to others, it will radiate back to you.”
“This journey of life is about realizing our inherent wholeness. It has nothing to do with perfecting anything”
“When you lose your 'cool' you show your doubts, your frustrations, your fears and your insecurity.”
“It’s wonderful to know that the power to define who I am rests solely with me. If I decide I am an artist, or a poet, a teacher or a writer then; I am”
“One day enough work will have been done. Enough prayers will have been said. Enough confidence will have been formed. One day with effortless certainty your dreams will manifest into physical form; proving dreams really can come true”
“I appreciate anyone that tries to make this world a better place.”
“No one knows while experiencing their darkest hour that some day they may use that very experience to illuminate the ways for others. Nothing is ever wasted”
“It’s good to know that challenges are designed to make me and not to break me.”
“When you claim your amazing, limitless self you are simply owning the highest truth of who we are.”
“Through the absence of what we think we have to have, we can experience the discovery of our wholeness”
“My mind is the force that forcefully makes me take the life's route my heart desires.”
“I love to strengthen myself with a healthy diet, plenty of exercise and maintaining a strong connection to myself”
“If a belief is hurting you, perhaps its time for a new belief. Your truth shouldn’t hurt”
“To be a world changer; resolve your own inner conflict”
“As a deep wound comes to the surface, things can appear worse for a time.”
“The energy of love is indestructible”
“I am open to receiving help with moving forward toward my dreams and aspirations”
“I believe the Universe desires for us to choose to love as much as possible while we are here.”
“Never wait till the beginning of a new year to commence your resolution,but start now,for if you can't do it now,then forget it.”
“The journey to move self love is often a quiet and long road. One without cheerleaders or confetti. Just you and your strong inner conviction to do things differently. There are both triumphs and failures on this road. And when you truly turn a corner you will bask in quiet victory, finally feeling the power you once thought was else where.”
“In life; if you always stay engaged in giving and receiving love, life will always be easier”
“There is nothing lacking in you. You came into this life as an abundant being. You remain as such. Free your heart and mind from anything but this truth.”
“94.	You are here to be fully alive. Your expression is needed. Don’t hold back”
“Real is the new beautiful”
“You gave me a soul touch. A touch beyond physical. The most powerful of touch. I thought it was about you but I was wrong it was about me. In me. It took me a life time to realize it was me, not you. Thank you for showing me my soul”
“As I acknowledge the boundaries within myself, I am given plenty of opportunities to reinforce them”
“Authenticity inspires. Just be real”
“When I am centered on love I don’t need to be better than you. I don’t need you to like me. I don’t need to be rich. I don’t even need to be extraordinary. When I am centered on love who I am and where I am at is enough”
“When you are in the highest vibrational state you will not feel the need to; overeat, over spend, insist on having a certain relationship or even become a millionaire because you have shifted into the abundance that you are and from this place you don’t feel any lack at all.”
“PEP up your Life with Positive Energy Power; a Power that comes from choosing emotions of Love and Faith, Hope and Courage, Confidence and Compassion.”
“We forget to Live while we are alive. When death arrives, we beg and plead for a little more Life.”
“You know its downs in life that bounce you high in life.”
“I... the oracle, see but cannot put into action without your aid. The future is created by all things working together but most importantly by us. Let us work in unison to create something great, amazing and beautiful.”
“The busy kind of people that I don't like are those that are very busy doing nothing”
“True royalty lies in being simple.... in being YOU....”
“When your unique personality is discovered, you will become an inspiration to many people”
“What inspires you and you want to be more successful at is your calling”
“Don't waste time. Don't let a minute pass doing nothing or doing something that is not as per your wish. Grab hold of each minute and do what you want to do.”
“You should be aware of fake friends because it is the hardest to be aware of.”
“Teach your little ones about the rules of decent behaviour. When they grow up, it will be too late to learn.”
“Being blinded in love and friendship is a common mistake.”
“Many books describe different problem solving techniques, but solving complicated problems in reality is not so easy.”
“Solving a complicated problem can be frustrating. You can have good problem solving skills, but sometimes a problem seems like it has no solution. Nevertheless, never give up.”
“It is equally important to learn from experience and from books.”
“Ask your friends for help if you need it. Asking for help can be costly if you don't have friends.”
“Don't think you can act perfectly. A perfect person doesn't exist. Always strive to give your best effort, and that's it.”
“You make a difference and love what you do. Don't let bullies push you into side stepping that passion.”
“Are you sure you are done? But you are still alive.”
“Money is important, no doubt it is. But is it everything? That's the question we miss when we make our Choices in Life.”
“Anything is possible...you see having a good heart is what it is all about. With love...anything is possible.”
“Your life is YOUR life. You can make it or break it, take it, shake it, rake it or just bake it. It's your life.”
“A wise man is humble, knowing he actually doesn't know much.”
“I've had several work addiction cycles in my life. Those were situations when important tasks were assigned to me. I took into account that people should remember me based on what I did rather than based on what I failed to do.”
“It is impossible to avoid failures in life. Don't be afraid of them. Consider rather how to learn from your own failures.”
“The seeds of dreams is mostly sown by the dreamer,but the fruits are enjoyed by many.”
“Show me a well inspired mind &I will show you a mind that will go beautiful &successful places.”
“During periods of tribulation & uncertainty,it will be unwise to abandon hope.”
“You are most free when you are with family,You can be who you are without the fear of judgement, When you have that fear around people you call family, They not family. Surround yourself with people that accept the best and the worst of you, when you have this, you found family”
“Whenever a problem arrives, do three things—Face it, Fight it, and Finish it.”
“~BY BIRTH~
WE are LOVE by BIRTH.
WE are JOY by BIRTH.
WE are PEACEFULL by BIRTH.
WE are JUST by BIRTH.
EMBRACE Who YOU ARE,
EMBRACE YOUR BIRTH...”
“I have grown to realize that we only find true happiness once we recognize that what we have is good enough, otherwise, we keep searching for that “perfect life" or "perfect thing" and never find them because the problem is within us- Nanda Da Silva.”
“We all have the Wisdom to understand that sooner or later Life will end, but we don’t have the Willpower to Live before we die.”
“The persistence embellished road is the road that most likely leads to success.”
“The opportunities that life has got to offer are far richer than diamond &platinum.”
“Remember, the only way to bring about the greater good, is to be the greater good.”
“Life depends on how you want it to be.”
“Don't change anything about yourself to impress others, no matter how small...simply because the small things about us is what makes us who we are and that's all that matters.”
“While waves of sorrows climb to new heights, shall the burdens of man overwhelm him.”
“To love someone deeply gives you strength. Being loved by someone deeply gives you courage.”
“A man with a mission does not think in terms of his own success and failure. He does his work for which he comes to the earth with great patience and persistence; he is so positively directed that he never deviates from his line of work and consequently becomes a true universal worker and a successful man in all directions.”
“An effective self axis and a right orbit offer a man a perfect revolution around the God.”
“The Only race Really Worth Winning is the Human Race”
“Insight Plus Hindsight Equals Foresight”
“You CAN be all you imagine yourself to be. You WILL be everything you believe you are worth being.”
“The most powerful human beings of this planet are those devoted men who worship God as well as Science with a positive work synergy of heart and brain, unravel the mysteries of the universe and then spread out the light of wisdom on all.”
“In love, women are professionals, men are amateurs”
“You need a team to float a sailboat, but you are the boss of your direction.”
“You need a team to float a sailboat, but you are the boss of your direction.”
“We all come into and go out of this world in the same way. The Destination is the same. The difference is the Journey. Some Enjoy it, some Don't !”
“True Happiness doesn't come from Prosperity, Pleasure, and Power, but from PEACE.”
“WHEN I REFLECT ON MY LIFE, IT SEEMS THAT THE SMARTEST THINGS I EVER DID, WERE THE DUMBEST THINGS I NEVER DID!”
“The Universe is holding you in her arms - lean in”
“The question isn't who is going to let me; it's who is going to stop me.”
“Imagine saying yes - I'm perfect in my imperfections.”
“Imagine saying yes ... I'm ready now!”
“Imagine saying yes ... let's do this thing now!”
“Imagine saying yes ... I'm ready to live the life I desire.”
“Imagine saying yes ... I'm ready to live my dreams in full technicolour.”
“Imagine saying yes ... to the infinite possibilities coming my way now.”
“Imagine saying yes ... to that secret yearning inside you.”
“Where will you be a year from now?”
“Inhale love, exhale fear.”
“Great leaders make decisions ...”
“If you're feeling unsure, ask the universe to show you the way.”
“Lean into love and away from fear.”
“Love or fear – your choice.”
“Now is where the action happens.”
“If it feels scary - do it.”
“Telling big dreams to small minds is like asking a pig never to feed in the waste bin,the pig will always go there because it has no value for cleanliness.”
“Don't compare your beginning to someone else's middle.”
“Success = a series of small, consistent, loving steps.”
“Success = persistence when it gets hard.”
“It is dangerous & a disaster to come to this rich world only to desire nothing but poverty & mediocrity.”
“Be patient - let yourself unfurl one delicate leaf at a time.”
“Keep going – a miracle is around the corner.”
“What's working right now? Keep doing it!”
“Step into the person you want to become.”
“Gratitude creates happiness.”
“Imagine saying yes...To your authentic voice so you and your business can fly.”
“Imagine saying yes...To you and shifting from unsure & scared to certainly & conviction about the power of what you do.”
“Imagine saying yes... as you smile in the mirror you did a great job today.”
“Imagine saying yes ... The sooner you see & share yourself from a place of real authenticity the faster your inspired business will grow.”
“Imagine saying yes ...I am worthy right now.”
“Imagine saying yes ...To embracing all of you so you can create your authentic, inspired story.”
“The paw of a dog is first a best friend; as need, his paw is set to the end; my paw is best first as a friend... just like that of a dawg!”
“Imagine saying yes... To the abundance flowing your way now.”
“Imagine saying yes ... To you right now.”
“Imagine saying yes ... To your authentic voice so you feel great sharing your story & your business with the world.”
“Imagine saying yes... To life right now.”
“Imagine saying yes... To what's in your heart right now.”
“Imagine saying yes... I am doing this right now for me.”
“Imagine saying yes... I am doing this now, even though it's hard ...it will worth it.”
“Imagine saying yes... It’s time to step into my greatness right now.”
“Imagine saying yes... To your powerful inner voice right now.”
“Imagine saying yes... To your inspiration right now.”
“Imagine saying yes... To your inner resources and wisdom right now.”
“Imagine saying yes... To your cherished goals right now.”
“Listen quietly... the calling inside you is real... your innate wisdom is waiting for you to say yes and step into all of who you are.”
“Imagine if saying yes to your authentic voice was the key to unlocking your soulful business & your success.”
“Gentle, inspired, authentic, stories will outsell' hard sell' any day.”
“Each new day our determination to succeed should be double that of the previous day.”
“Draw on your inner essence & light up your world.”
“The faster you are ready to see and share yourself from a place of real authenticity the clearer the path to your inspired business.”
“When people begin to shake their heads and wonder about you, you’re pointed in the right direction. When people begin talking about you behind your back, you’re on your way. When people begin planning your assassination, you’re there.”
“True Wealth is Humble”
“Living without meaning is not Life, it is Death. It is like being in the graveyard except that you still have breath.”
“I've tried to solve problems to the best of my knowledge. Many times I was successful, but sometimes I also failed. And now I finally understand – that's life.”
“Life is the greatest teacher because it educates even those who really hate to learn.”
“Take decisions with Calm heart , don't take decisions to Calm heart.”
“What You put in, is more Important than what You put on.”
“The hardest thing in the world to change is Someone else.”
“Using your Instinct; will prevent You from becoming Extinct.”
“Don't try to live forever - You can't! But you can do things that will live forever. -RVM ‪#‎Inspiration‬ ‪#‎Stayinspired‬”
“Your positive thoughts may be unseen today,but persistence can bring them to reality tomorrow.”
“If you persist with your positive thoughts today,they shall manifest bearing positive fruits tomorrow.”
“Those that stoop to regard the downtrodden shall rise to prominence,fame &riches.”
“Things will happen when God says when they are suppose to.”
“Before you embark on your wealth journey,never underestimate the potentials of the mind.”
“You just gotta have the desire to do something to make it possible. Human beings have that capacity.
And being born with no talent to draw at all is the best thing ever. Because you start from nothing.
And because you started from nothing, you can be everything.”
“PEACE is the foundation of Happiness—for where there is Anxiety, Tension, and Turmoil, Joy cannot exist.”
“Denial is the Fog that stops us from seeing ourselves clearly.”
“Having what you need is more Important than getting what You want!”
“You can cope with life, if you have hope in Christ.”
“Your problem becomes broader when you bother.”
“Love's fire heats water, water cools not love.”
“HOSPITAL IS MY TEMPLE ,
PATIENT IS MY GOD,
HUMANITY IS MY RELIGION .”
“HAVE A DREAM BEYOND YOURSELF AND PEOPLE WILL JOIN YOUR DREAM TO MAKE IT A REALITY”
“A PATIENT IS NOT JUST A BED NUMBER IN A HOSPITAL WITH XYZ DIAGNOSIS BUT A HUMAN BEING WITH FEELINGS AND EMOTIONS !”
“Life is full of challenges you can either lose or win”
“Gifts of Creation can come in the simplest of words through pride”
“Those that persevere with their lofty dreams today shall be the beneficiaries of success titles tomorrow.”
“Today can only count if we count on our beliefs.”
“The men who try to do something and fail are infinitely better than those who try to do nothing and succeed.”
“Those that fail to dream today should never expect to be called to the success bar tomorrow.”
“The reality of tomorrow depends entirely on today's dreams.”
“Today can only count if we count on ourselves to make the difference.”
“To make today count, start it with a positive thought.”
“Impossibility is a fantasy word that exist only in the dictionary of the unbelieving.”
“Those blessed with beliefs shall make today count,but those blessed with unbelief shall only be counted as spectators in today's events.”
“Show me a well inspired mind & I will show you a mind that can conquer the universe.”
“I have never seen a person rise to success when his mind has not aided him to rise.”
“The mission of any one who has witnessed riches should be to redirect the mindset of the poor.”
“Wait is alluring
Look at how the shore awaits for the lingering ocean to touch it once and go.
Knowing it will not be there forever.
Forever being inconceivable
Or a moment being pure and magical.”
“Every fool has an idea how to change the world. Wise people think about how to improve the world around them.”
“Creative thinking is like what Icarus done with wax and feathers he used his imagination to fly.Every one has imagination they do not need any body to inspire them they have self inspiration with in them.BE WHO YOU WANT TO BE .Gary F Evans...”
“Never believe less because you believe your believe system cannot accommodate more,rather believe more because your belief system is able to accommodate all that you believe in.”
“Learn to believe in those who have no beliefs,for if their new found belief cause them to rise,they will always believe in you.”
“There is so much abundance flowing within the universe,that thinking lack should be considered a crime against humanity.”
“Life's irony;Some prefer to be workers just to be able to earn pension,forgetting the fact that they have the power to also build pensionable companies.”
“If you persist with your success thoughts today,they shall make you a point of positive reference in the universe tomorrow.”
“The thing that inspired you can destroy you too.”
“Things are often not as they seem, but always as they should be.”
“Breath is the first thing we do coming into this life, breath is the last thing we do leaving this life, and breath regulates everything in between.”
“The Challenge in Life is not to have the absence of Fear, but to have the Courage to overcome it.”
“There’s no reason to cry over spilled milk. People cannot change the things that have already happened.”
“Out of the abundance of a faith filled heart,the mouth faithfully declares.”
“Just sufficiently imagine the impossible & soon the impossible shall become a possible reality.”
“Everything you will ever desire in life can be powered into existence with your beliefs.”
“More than anything else the courage to begin is the sure way to begin your success journey.”
“What so ever can be imagined, can be worked into reality.”
“There is so much abundance flowing within the universe that thinking lack automatically makes you a lack unto others.”
“To stay intact make an impact”
“In the game of life, the cheat code to attain success is hardwork.”
“Help, before a person lets out a yelp for help”
“Belief without season simply means,your beliefs should be experimented everyday,for the day your success will be trapped by your beliefs you do not know.”
“IF YOU HAVE DONATED MONEY YOU HAVE DONATED SOMETHING,
IF YOU HAVE DONATED TIME YOU HAVE DONATED SOMETHING MORE, IF YOU HAVE DONATED ORGANS YOU HAVE DONATED EVERYTHING”
“WE STRIVE TO FIND A PERMANENT HOME, BUT WE FORGET THAT WE ARE ON A TOURIST VISA ISSUED BY GOD TO THE PLANET EARTH !”
“If you draw the gun and don't shoot right, you're shot down!”
“Use two-way communication on oral exams to check the students' knowledge, not their attitudes. Checking attitudes can lead to the slippery area of subjective assessment.”
“When choosing a profession, a person will have good incentive for personal development by choosing such a profession that represents a personal challenge.”
“To reach your Destination, you need a Direction, but you can't get there without Inspiration!”
“EVERYTHING THAT HAS AN ADVANTAGE ALSO HAS A DISADVANTAGE...... EVERYTHING THAT HAS A DISADVANTAGE ALSO HAS AN ADVANTAGE.”
“Follow the path of least resistance as water does, and you'll achieve your goals however consider it a path of easiness. Fight your way through resistance and be proud of your actions whether you achieved your goals or not. Balance both, and you will be unstoppable on any path you take.”
“WE DON'T LIVE IN AN APARTMENT OR A VILLA, WE LIVE IN OUR BODY !”
“IF ONE CAN DROP THE DIFFERENT HATS WITH DIFFERENT LABELS ONE MOVES AROUND WITH , ONE BECOMES CAREFREE !”
“I DO NOT NEED ANOTHER STAGE TO SAY WHAT I WANT TO SAY, THE WORLD ITSELF IS MY STAGE !”
“Although, we know that our earthly journey will end soon, we continue chasing millions which we finally have to leave behind.”
“Don't be afraid of NOT being good enough in the eyes of others but whatever you do, do it to the best of your ability and with excellence. That... is Good Enough!”
“Amidst catastrophe & depression,the mind programmed for success will still live above poverty.”
“The future begins today and not tomorrow.”
“The best way to love someone is to love the heart.”
“Fear the mind,it is the master of the universe,for it can believe & also become.”
“Be consistent with your beliefs for consistency brings progress.”
“ONLY A FEW MAKE EFFORTS TO CHANGE THE WORLD, MOST ENJOY THE BENEFITS OF CHANGE !”
“EVERY CHILD BELOW THREE YEARS IS A REFLECTION OF GOD, IT IS THE FAMILY AND THE SOCIETY WHICH CONVERTS IT INTO A HUMAN BEING !”
“WE BELIEVE THAT THE VIRTUAL WORLD IS REAL, THE FACT IS THE REAL WORLD IS VIRTUAL [Maya] !”
“PEOPLE WILL NOT REMEMBER YOU FOR THE CAR YOU DROVE OR THE HOUSE YOU LIVED IN , THEY WILL REMEMBER YOU FOR WHAT YOU DID FOR THEM !”
“A BIG DREAM IS LIKE A JIGSAW PUZZLE, ONE HAS TO PLUG IN ALL THE PIECES TO SEE THE FINAL PICTURE !”
“DON'T TRY TO PUT VALUE TO EVERYTHING IN THIS WORLD SOMETHINGS ARE PRICELESS !”
“ONE WHO IS RESPECTED AS AN INDIVIDUAL COMMANDS RESPECT, ONE WHO IS RESPECTED FOR THE CHAIR DEMANDS RESPECT !”
“ONE HAS TO IGNITE THE TORCH TO START A MOVEMENT BUT ONE HAS TO CREATE TORCH-BEARERS TO SPREAD THE MOVEMENT !”
““Learning without action is like teaching a child to walk and
watching them crawl everywhere””
“The only future fact is... there are no future facts!”
“The greatest communicators in leadership have a sixth sense that also focuses on what others may do and how they do it while interpreting the reasons why”
“Lead others to lead - not follow”
“Great leaders are hard to find, harder to leave and impossible to forget”
“Things will happen when God says when they are suppose to.”
“Past is experience and future an illusion, both being mostly useless because the change is in every second, but a kind heart living in present holds the power to change both. My past does not define me, neither I live with care towards future, whatever the bad future may bring I will destroy it with my mightiest and indomitable force of will, whatever good it may be, I will cherish for the rest of my life. I only exist in present and that is my way of living without doubt and regrets.”
“Understanding spells peace; therefore, with all your getting, get understanding. Then you'll be wise indeed.”
“Our heart dictates to a great extent how we live because we always find time to do what our heart desires. The Bible warns us to guard our hearts above all else, making sure we concentrate on those desires that will keep us on the right path. Make sure your affections lead you in the right direction. Put boundaries on your desires: Don't go after everything you see. Look straight ahead, keep your eyes fixed on your goal, and don't get sidetracked on detours that lead to sin.”
“Adversity is easier to accept when we recognize God’s intentions and love for us. God uses our daily difficulties to enlarge our spiritual capacity to experience more fully the glorious eternal realities of knowing, worshiping, and serving Him effectively! God has a full, rich inheritance laid up for us in heaven: ‘Oh, how great is Your goodness, which You have laid up for those who fear You, which You have prepared for those who trust in You in the presence of the sons of men!’”
“Have you ever wished you could actually see God, touch Him, and feel His presence? Are there times you want to sit down with God and get His advice on your need? Thomas wanted Jesus' physical presence. But God's plan is wiser. He has not limited Himself to one physical body; He wants to be present with you at all times. Even now Christ is with you in the form of the Holy Spirit if you’re a believer. You can talk to Him, and you can find His words to you in the pages of the Bible. READ THE BIBLE!”
“ONE WHO HAS WORKED FOR SELF AND FAMILY LEAVES BEHIND MEMORIES , ONE WHO HAS WORKED FOR OTHERS LEAVES BEHIND A LEGACY !”
“To beget trending ideas that can move you to your next level,then engage in the act of benevolence today.”
“To make today count,start it by believing aright.”
“Things will happen. You can't stop them from happening, but you can control your reaction from making things worse. React Positively. Live Happily.”
“The storms in life are there to help us grow, washing away the old, clearing a path for the new, teaching us strength, teaching us wisdom. The storms in life are not obstacles to life. The storms in life are life.”
“Breath calms the body. Breath calms the mind. Breath brings balance, to all of mankind. Our first breath coming in. Our last breath going out. Breath regulates life, of this there is no doubt. Breathe.”
“Forgiveness does not mean we simply forget, or we are ok with what has happened. Forgiveness means we understand humans unconsciously do horrible things. Forgiveness is a choice not to be held in a pain prison of the past. Forgiveness is to choose presence. Forgiveness is to choose peace.”
“Love. Honesty leads to trust. Trust leads to commitment. Commitment leads to security. Security leads to intimacy. Intimacy leads to love. Love is an expression of God.”
“In meditation, we can develop awareness. Our identity then shifts from thoughts and emotions to presence. Presence brings the dark into the light. The light is love. When we create from love, the greater good is done. We create heaven on earth. This is the future of mankind. This is spiritual evolution.”
“Beauty is more than skin deep. Beauty radiates from deep within. The innocence of a child. The love in someone’s heart. A willingness to help others. The desire to make the world a better place. Someone painfully knocked down in life, who gets up, smiles, and continues to blossom.”
“Mr adversary is the uninvited guest that loves to visit the great.”
“Value in the greater good. The value in someone doing something for the greater good, isn’t in the fact that they did something for the greater good. It is in the realization that of all the choices they had, they choose to do something for the greater good. They choose to be part of something bigger than themselves. Their choice is love.”
“True friends, love you unconditionally, have no ulterior motives, want what is best for you, are honest with you. True friends don’t always tell you what you want to hear. True friends tell you what you need to hear. True friends are a blessing.”
“anD plant theM Trees, voila filters off”
“The mind is the gateway to all riches the mind has dared believe in.”
“WE BELIEVE THAT WE HAVE TO SPEND TO GET HAPPINESS, BUT MOST OFTEN HAPPINESS IS AVAILABLE FREE OF CHARGE !”
“IF WE LOVE AND ENJOY THE WORK WE DO THEN IT IS ALWAYS A BONUS TO GET PAID FOR IT !”
“INDIVIDUALS AND ORGANISATIONS WHO DON'T REINVENT THEMSELVES TO REMAIN WITH THE CHANGING TIMES GET OUTDATED !”
“Those that succeed most in life are those that see life as a positive venture.”
“In the journey of life, we pass pleasures & pain. There will be sunshine and rain; there will be loss and gain. But we must learn to smile again and again.”
“The key to successful social behaviour: be approachable and understand the needs of others.”
“A person who is too proud in love will suffer from the devastating bitterness in the end.”
“Celebrate the moments in between the moments worth celebrating.”
“Somebody could not write 1 but could write 2”
“Many people age into a cage. They suddenly feel helpless waiting for death because they have no reason to live.”
“Conclude every success with an action plan... It's just the beginning... Work on an action plan post every failure...You are just getting started...”
“Always keep in mind..."You ARE never the person you are becoming."”
“Attitude comes from self confidence and self confidence comes from accumulation of success...”
“Turn deaf to the world and listen to your inner shout... find your answers..”
“Now you think you will never defeat your opponent, but remember, you also thought your opponent would never defeat you.
Ironic, isn't it?”
“Is it not strange that while we have an opportunity to choose Positive over Negative, Joy over Sorrow, we often choose the latter?”
“Some people are so busy with life that they just forget to live.”
“You are worthy to be human, don't ruin the concept.”
“IF WE BELIEVE WE ARE MORTAL THEN WE WILL NOT BEHAVE AS IF WE ARE IMMORTAL !”
“Love, strength and unity between mother, child and disease is more beautiful, powerful and sustainable than a billion dollars in the hands of the gluttony, vain and prideful man who’s inherited these riches without sacrifice. It is better to die young rich in love, than to live long amid poor principles.”
“KEEP THE CHILD WITHIN YOU ALIVE AS THE CHILD REPRESENTS INNOCENCE, CURIOSITY AND VITALITY !”
“OUR MIND HAS TO CARRY LESS BAGGAGE IF WE ARE ABLE TO FORGIVE AND FORGET !”
“Life is a place to pursue your lofty dreams &also prepare for inevitable death.”
“Man is not poor because poverty is destined to plague him,rather he is poor because of poverty of ideas.”
“Life is a place of great hope because, its a place where dreams can be persuaded to manifest.”
“You cannot be an acclaimed scholar until you can answer all the questions of a five year old.”
“Pleasures that we seek are not Happiness at its peak... for it is Contentment that gives True fulfillment.”
“Life's Irony;Sometimes the most difficulty aspect of pursuing ones identified route towards success is not knowing if one should persist in ones already identified route or if one should change route or location entirely.”
“EVERYTHING THAT IS RELEVANT IN GOOD HEALTH BECOMES IRRELEVANT IN ILL HEALTH !”
“It's not Circumstance. It's not Chance. It's the Choice we make that determines the Destiny of Life.”
“The heights charm us, but the steps do not; with the mountain in our view we love to walk the plains.”
“It's amazing a person can hear when you whisper, but ignore when you talk out loud”
“It may be a Mountain or a Tree, a River or a Bee . . . learn to enjoy the little things in Life.”
“Only when YOU let go of YOURSELF will the real you surface.”
“A POSITIVE ATTITUDE CAN COVERT AN ADVERSITY INTO AN OPPORTUNITY !”
“START APPRECIATING GODS' CREATION, YOU WON'T NEED RECREATION !”
“FOCUSED SUN RAYS CAN IGNITE A FIRE, ONLY AN IGNITED MIND CAN BE FOCUSED !”
“AN INDIVIDUALS ' TITLE IS PERMANENT WHILE A DESIGNATION IS TEMPORARY !”
“BEING HUMAN IS TREATING OTHERS LIKE HUMAN BEINGS!”
“Let them underestimate you, For then you will really be able to estimate them.”
“GIVE WAY TO AN AMBULANCE AS IT IS TRYING TO SAVE A VIP-THE CITIZEN OF THIS COUNTRY !”
“Hope is the thing which makes a life meaningful.”
“Sweetness which comes from benefiting someone is more delolicious than honey and butter.”
“To be alive simply means to have faith,one has faith that the air one breathes will sustain one,hence being alive without the other kind of faith will be counterproductive to the reason one is alive.”
“Love is bliss only if you are a giver, not otherwise.”
“The Destiny of a good man is to live for self actualization”
“IF THERE AREN'T ANY GODS THEN ALL HUMAN VALUES ARE JUST OPINIONS”
“Even if you feel shatter and broken apart, never show weakness towards the one that causes you the ache in your heart, and instead remain strong, and never let them feel satisfied by seeing you devastated.”
“We accept the love we think we deserve.”
“There are many who live Life in Fear, without taking risks. They don’t take chances. Alas! Not only are they missing chances, they are missing Life itself!”
““Truth is not determined by what others think about you; it's about what you believe in yourself. It doesn't depend on facts; but rests on your faith.””
“See the solution not the barrier. Aim for the destination not the carrier”
“Don't talk about your negatives rather try to improve and explore on your positives and contribute something great to the society, as no one is perfect in this world.”
“The road to success is as long as your life. It began when you did and only ends when you do. As long as there is a road, there is a chance...”
“Judging someone without knowing their life experience, without knowing their pain, by their physical appearance, by their social status, from your own belief system, from other people’s gossip, is a very shallow view, and a very shallow opinion.”
“As time goes by in your life, it becomes more precious. Make every moment mindful, meaningful and memorable.”
“Mistakes are the foundation of unintentional discoveries.”
“You can change your future at anytime, simply walk in another direction. Ruben Castaneda II”
“Within us is Energy which when channelized, spirals into Inspiration.”
“Don't take tomorrow to bed with you.”
“You can't be the best, if you've never been broken.”
“If you left fear keep you in the boat, you will never walk on water.”
“Build an empire and chill”
“The discipline of writing something down is the first step toward making it happen.”
“You should always listen to your heart if you don't want any regret in life. People will give their opinion as they have their own way of looking at things, their own perspective. So instead of getting confused, it's better to listen to your inner voice because your heart knows what is best for you.”
“Happiness is not a result of a planned endeavor; it is the product of intentionally seizing an impromptu opportunity.”
“Perseverance is the key that can help you rise beyond success.”
“Faith without work is like one standing,but desiring to sit without making any attempt.”
“Never associate with negative thinkers,for they take you no where but to the negative terrain of life.”
“Despise the humble beginning of another & your fall has just began.”
“The mind is a possibility zone,a place where hope can be re-invented,if it dares believe in a failure look alike venture,success is guaranteed.”
“In our modern age, with all the knowledge available about every subject, on devices, we hold in our hands, it is one's own choice to be an idiot”
“Not all people who are smart, are wise, yet all who are wise are indeed smart.”
“It's very simple; just look at your life to see where you're heading. You're always in a momentum of something.”
“Evil only abound to them that perpetrate the same, but they that are enshrined with the potency to cure evil are barely ever known.”
“Life is like a canvas of great works of art, for every painting illustrates a special phase of life itself.”
“Money and wealth, indeed, are the greatest enemy to the poor, as social status is measured and controlled by the same.”
“The youths jumped over the walls of all rules and regulations, broken into wrecked homes of morals, forcefully had their ways with all virtues, and left society to a fate of sliming covetousness to freely birth bastards, whose bloodline was descendants of gross irresponsibility, onto the streets.”
“I'm not a nice person, as far as God is concern, but I can't let God down by letting myself fall.”
“Marital vows no longer mean anything now in our society, that marriage has been perverted by lust after the desires of the flesh and excessive callousness to care and responsibility.”
“The rate with which tides of the great holocaust of ailments is fast-approaching our dilapidated communities, waiting for an affirmative action to our rescue would be self-destructive, unless we would like that affirmative action to "rescue our morbid corpses after we sank dead from drowning beyond resuscitation".”
“When you are constantly submissive, dedicated to, and keenly interested in learning wisdom, all entities concern in your field of knowledge become your comrades.”
“Everything has a price. The jobs that keep us busy all day every day, are the ultimate price we pay for being able to eat, live and look good, and also support family relations. So if you want to eat good food, wear nice clothes, date pretty women, travel the world, smell nice and what have you, the ultimate price you must pay, to have and do any or all the above, is hardwork.”
“Satan did nothing evil to Christ. He never even got close because if Jesus was indeed the light, the way, the truth and the life, and Satan who was repping the direct opposite to Christ, Satan had, and still has, no chance of getting close. It was the evil deeds of mankind that nailed Christ to the cross and so I would plead the indulgence of all preachers redeemed, to preach total repentance to the rest of the humankind like a true committed evangelists of the gospel, should.”
“The system is a cunning one, don't lend it your heart. You can only be the beast you must be to be able to fight and protect your own.”
“Indeed there's a tiny portion of animal truly attached to man, the use of which needs a lot of restrain from, and by, the individual.”
“A Genius is someone who is able to replicate exactly as the genie of his mind instructs.”
“Manners and virtues are now homeless widows in the hearts and minds of our present godforsaken generation that kids dropping out of school right from birth has become a prized competition.”
“We look for inspirational, motivational, and encouraging words to convince ourselves for trying our best whenever we failed, instead of finding ways to build on our weaknesses and correcting our mistakes where we went wrong.”
“Learn to surrender, because sometimes, when there is no way, surrender is the way. -RVM #Inspiration #Stayinspired”
“The Magic of Words.
Words yield a violent force of attraction that transforms the very force of life. Every true artist is a magician by this declaration. Every musical note is a magical spell that holds an individual spell-bound to certain lyrics of a particular song, poem, wise sayings, quotes et al, as his or her favorites.”
“Being a person who is not you, is the opposite of you because the only real you knows who you are and what you are like.”
“Yet has any man escaped, resisted, nature's force of attraction, spell of beauty, because, like a thief in broad daylight, all around us, nature abound.”
“When you weep silently in the dark with nobody to shoulder your tears, you only find comfort in sleep. But my heart goes out to those weeping and still battle insomnia.”
“It's barely typical writing about things of the past here in the present; for, when we do, it's only about things we need to use shape the future, here and now.”
“All dreams are fantasies in the minds of the dreamers,hence the job of the dreamer is to convert the impossible fantasy into a possible reality.”
“Women do not have a problem, they only fall easily for things they do not understand.”
“If the world suddenly turns upside down this minutes, while you're busy determining which direction you're running towards, anything that can float a little above the vegetation would without a choice turn our angels keeping watch and account over our destruction.”
“If the human race can all find one voice, scored by a mutual understanding, to live and do good by one another, the future generation would pray, without ceasing, to no better ancestral angels than ourselves.”
“It is strange—people chase and hoard money, and even cheat the world to become rich only to finally leave it all behind.”
“Life is like a race; even if you stumble rise up, run and finish the course. Don't be bothered about the laughing spectators; they can only laugh but can't participate.”
“Seek happiness and you will find unhappiness. There is no path to happiness. Happiness is the path. Happiness is a state of mind. A state of surrender to and acceptance of what is. Reality experienced through presence. We cannot live in the future nor the past, but we can choose to be held prisoner. To be set free we must move into this moment. This moment is all that exists and all that will ever exist. If we choose not to be happy now, Then When?”
“Don't just follow the Herd. Be like a Bird. Open your wings and Fly high in the Sky!”
“I guess that’s the aspect of being an adult that’s most terrifying: you either never change, or you change into someone you don’t even recognize anymore. Sometimes either end can turn out alright, and sometimes, not so much. There’s no certainty. There’s no rhyme or reason for things happening in the patterns they do, aside from the reasons we deduce. So with that being said, I want to believe that the reasons I am right here, right now, is to experience a new adventure, whatever that might be.”
“Where the mind has believed in a thing, it has also in the process procured hope.”
“There are tremendous opportunities lurking inside today & only those with foresight can unravel them.”
“Where there is belief,there is hope.”
“Just the way a plane requires two engines because of any uncertainties,so also in life it is safer & wiser for each family to have atleast two successful persons,because if one becomes bankrupt the other will take over.”
“Our mind is like a workshop; you can use your own tools to decide your destiny. Using tools of sincerity, hardwork and perseverance along with the lubricants of love, faith and charity will bring success in your life.”
“Give up the ground or you will never learn to fly.”
“Either take over, or move over...”
“Life slowly creeps in through the front door of everything and makes itself at home. Unsettling at first you resist this friendship. One day as fast as it arrived, it leaves. No word of goodbye, you find yourself chasing after it for the rest of your life...”
“The Richest person is not the Happiest person, the Happiest person is the Richest person.”
“Riches & poverty are off springs of our thinking,the richer your thoughts,the richer you become & the poorer your thoughts the poorer you become.”
“DREAMS ARE THE BEST ALARM CLOCK”
“DREAMS ARE THE BEST ALARM CLOCK”
“The Power of Intuition is not Magic, but pure Logic for those who let it burst from their Inspiration!”
“Those that are too scared to dream large shall be largely responsible for living in an unlarge world.”
“Wise are not those who are on right path with clear vision of their destination .
But those who after losing their way had discovered a different way out . !!
MIDHAT HAFIZ .”
“People who want More must first have the Courage to Walk out of the Door.”
“Some escape to LIVE. Some LIVE to escape.”
“Those who meet success in the morning should be cautious & careful because,by evening time it might have turned failure.”
“To leave your mark in the sands of time in life requires thinking beyond ordinary.”
“Searching for success is like mining diamond,you got to travel deep,never an easy task for the feeble mind.”
“Poverty can only terrorize those without the belief to procure an idea.”
“Engrave your desire in your mind today &the all seeing subconscious being will make your desire a reality.”
“Abundance makes a man feel he is strong,but scarcity actually proves who really is strong.”
“During period of abundance prepare for scarcity &during scarcity period enjoy the abundance you have stored.”
“Let us believe in today,for inside her lies many opportunities only the mental eyes can see.”
“Where persistence never fails,success can still pay you a surprise visit.”
“If your mind can make you a friend of the king,why opt to become only the paupers friend.”
“Appreciate the pay you earn & it will turn gold,but depreciate it & poverty will abide with you.”
“Those who rest their entire hope on belief shall beget the fruits only belief can produce,success.”
“If dreams would no longer manifest in life,it will be better we all commit mass suicide.”
“No matter what I get is good...
but it's a matter to think good for others... ”
“Experience says don't keep faith on anybody but what happens when someone keeps faith on you...
Trust your life & it's all about Faith”
“Everyone says my thinking is different than others ...
and so,that thinking is finally submitted to others”
“No matter what is your qualification... You will always been judge by your income...”
“Without hope, there is no scope”
“Without hope, there is no scope”
“Don't forget what you do today as it will come back when you least expect it.”
“To focus on a good deed is more powerful than to target a bad seed. -kei”
“Person is a doctor who can gets results without analysis”
“Living life without a goal is like sailing the sea without a compass.”
“Show me scarcity & I will boldly show you the ultimate tester of a man's strength.”
“Lets believe in something positive & tangible today,for beliefs can produce reality.”
“Thinking is the resolution we've got to aggressively embark upon to resolve life's numerous challenges.”
“Life is a race to be relevant before our time expires on Earth.”
“Riches is patience,for a little savings & investment everyday &before you know it,you are rich.”
“Those that sow humility, shall reap bountiful success.”
“Mine your mind & all you ever mind to desire shall be yours.”
“Abundance makes the heart proud,but scarcity is the key to humility.”
“Purify your every activity with belief & success shall be evident.”
“A man's strength is never tested during days of abundance &prosperity, but during days of scarcity & lack.”
“When you begin to declare your thoughts, success is around the horizon.”
“You're mind will always play many mind games with you but if you listen to your heart it will never fail you combine the two and you will be confused and in ways that you don't know you've refuse that blessing that is sent upon you”
“Days are like trains, they will just zoom by. You can be zapped seeing them pass or you can jump on to one of them and enjoy the Journey.”
“Grow your courage by remembering each day is a gift.”
“A good human... Keep giving blessings... Keep getting blessings...”
“Being zealous in what you love, is fanaticism at it's finest hour.”
“The subconscious being is a ever hearing demigod transforming every conversation details into magical reality.”
“The great become great because they believe in the saying "nothing is impossible.”
“Mediocrity shall continue to dwell upon the lives of those that believe only upon certificates.”
“Trust is best illustrated, and demonstrated, to be implicated.”
“Maximum success can only be found in the precious seed called humility.”
“Success is ready to manifest in your life if your subconscious mind is success inclined.”
“The power to make dreams become magical reality is by learning to process such dreams in your mind repeatedly”
“Confidence is the NUMBER ONE Service Your Client is Buying!”
“The mind is the gateway to all riches,fill your mind with abundance & abundance shall flourish in your life.”
“Motivation is the Internal. Marketing is the External!”
“The mind is the master of the universe,for it has the capacity to make man what he has vividly passed through his imagination room.”
“A true serenity and pureness of yourself is hard to save... a peace inside is so hard to find and keep but all is worthy enough to work on it and achieve!”
“Kids, no matter how big your problems are – ask your parents for help and advice.”
“There is a huge difference between thinking we know something and actually knowing something.”
“Do what YOU want to do because if you don’t, you are nothing but your own slave.”
“Relationships are like an investment. Once you place your worth in the right place, your value grows exponentially.”
“The longer your dream takes to turn success,the more solid your success foundation will become.”
“The declaration of a thing before its manifestation is the only evidence you've got to show that you have faithfully believed in a thing before it manifested.”
“The saying sell all your belongings & give to the poor simply means "Redirect your mind to the veritable source of all riches,which is the poor.”
“Telling the truth is less demanding than telling a lie.”
“The best advice will come from the person who has no personal interest in the matter.”
“There is so much to harvest out of this Rich Universe: Success, Innovation,Prosperity & Execellence.”
“I chose to align with with prosperity instead of poverty.”
“You cannot see a dream without fear,how will you dare to complete it.”
“Fake people show everything off they have, real people are only thankful.”
“Don't just follow the line. To be a Star - Shine!”
“Your goals must be pleasurable and inspiring to get you on your feet”
“You know you're in love when you love an imperfect person perfectly!”
“Poverty exist in life today because, we humans have ignored the rich aspect of the mind.”
“The mind is a dynamite waiting to activate impossible dreams into possible realities.”
“Absolutely believe in today, for it has the innate potentials to make real your ideas.”
“The moment you learn the lesson, the test will be over.”
“Wisdom is only three Ls, 'Life Long Learning.'”
“Living in style doesn't require money but a contented heart.”
“Time makes you to run from it so be quick at your decisions you decide”
“Ne renoncez pas à faire ce que vous voulez vraiment faire. Là où il y a des rêves, de l’amour et de l’inspiration, vous ne pourrez pas vous tromper. ”
“Times of solitude unlock our creativity and expose our mind to more inspiration leading to higher quality of output”
“All movies, all skills, all experiences, all goods, all services and products, all knowledge, all commerce, all industry, all medicine, all governments, all nations, all competitions and leagues began as a product of one man’s idea, inspiration and energy”
“The poorest man of all however, is the man who though has an idea is not able to convert his inspiration, idea and energy into a product”
“More measure of sorrow and despair accompanies an inspiration, thought, idea and all forms of such energy which was not brought forth to the world”
“The big problem many people today have is not the problem of having inspiration”
“The big problem many people today have is not the problem of having inspiration. Inspiration and ideas are not magical, most people have ideas. The trouble however is the inability to birth the ideas that have been conceived”
“Whenever we put an end to the thoughts, energy, ideas and inspiration that God has given us, we are guilty of same effects and consequences of abortion. No one else can abort your idea”
“If you can have energy, idea and inspiration, you can have a product and invention”
“The first thing that must be done for invisible energy to become tangible product is that we need inspiration”
“The only way that your physical body could access and be blessed and be inspired by the things happening in the spirit is through the waves of the spirit”
“Interaction of the spirit of God and your own spirit is called inspiration”
“When the spirit of God moves upon you, it begins to inspire you and your body responds as goose bumps”
“The best way to respond to inspiration is to convert your inspiration”
“Without learning to convert inspiration, you can only share experiences of feelings, emotions and not thoughts”
“Knowledgeable people know how to convert their inspiration into ideas”
“What good is living if you can't serve God?”
“Through prayers and preaching we gather inspiration that must become ideas”
“The flute is not an instrument that has a good moral effect; it is too exciting.”
“I just liked the sound that came out of a flute. I just loved it. It just initially attracted me and then I got hooked. It is a little different for a kid that age to become hooked on the flute. It's a difficult instrument to learn, but I didn't find it as difficult as I thought it would be.”
“I worked in L.A. for 25 years, ... I played oboe, English horn, piccolo, flute, clarinet. But what happens when you do that is you spend your practice time on instruments you are weaker on to make them stronger. The instruments you are strong on become weaker. At some point, you end up in a mush of mediocrity. I was working for quantity, and I wanted to get back to my primary interest, which was to play jazz on the saxophone.”
“Musically it's impressive how much he sounds like a flute or a theremin. It was very impressive. Clearly, he puts a lot of energy in to whistling.”
“The end points of inspiration must not just be mere words, but also thoughts and ideas”
“Every word is important. Every word of God is an energy and must be converted into inspiration and ideas”
“You are measured by whether you take personal accountability, or not.”
“Life has nothing to do with your denomination, all it matters is your determination.”
“When you receive the inspiration from God, you must understand the given word”
“A Christian has the ideas every day through inspiration but fail to convert due to a poor mind”
“When you fail to convert ideas, another person is receiving same idea and inspiration and is probably working on it”
“Many cannot translate what they are inspired by into real life products and results”
“The best way to respond is to learn to convert inspiration and frequency into product”
“The end point of inspiration must not just be mere words, but also thoughts and ideas”
“Be not afraid of life. Believe that life is worth living, and your belief will help create the fact.”
“It is cool to be good and good to be cool”
“The sky is not your limit. Your limit is measured by time and what you can do.”
“Don't look at how far men has gone ahead of you, look at how far God has distanced himself from you.”
“Don’t just be who you are and what you are. Move, evolve, change, grow and become better each day.”
“They said you cant do it CANDOR you CAN do it”
“Happiness is a choice…you cannot choose what happens, but you can choose your reaction to it and be Happy.”
“Independence means you are free to choose between this world and the hereafter.”
“Nothing carries more potential for change than individual acts of human
kindness.”
“The thoughts we think today create the life we live tomorrow”
“All is as it should be. Learn, let go, move on.”
“No matter what it is called. No matter how it is imagined. Fancy labels and fantasy are based in thought. Thought is based in human consciousness. Human consciousness is not spiritual consciousness. Fantasy is not reality. We cannot wake up to who and what we truly are while remaining in the dream. There is a simple approach based in reality that works well. Awareness”
“Spiritual teachers appear when we are in need, appear when we are ready, reminding us of who we are, reminding us of what we know, pointing to our essence, pointing us towards each other, redirecting us to God, leading us to oneness, Spiritual Teachers remind us there is only one reality, Presence”
“Enlightenment has nothing to do with clothing, ritual, self - hypnosis, imagination, or trans like states. Enlightenment requires understanding our true essence, understanding the true essence of God, understanding the true essence of the cosmos. Enlightenment is beyond all thought. Enlightenment can only be experienced. Enlightenment is transcendence.”
“Truth, Reality, Consciousness. Always is what it is. No beginning, No end, No birth, No death. That which never changes, sets us free.”
“Health is the art of balance. Good mental and physical health require balance. Balance of diet, exercise, sleep, and stress. Imbalance creates stress on the body and mind. Poor health and disease are states of imbalance. Relaxation restores balance. Relaxation is the ideal state for good health. Relaxation is the ideal state for healing. Meditation is the art of consciously relaxing body and mind.”
“Salvation, enlightenment, transcendence, is not a destination. Nor an event in the future. The answer is within us right now. To be fully spiritually awake while in human form. To live not in, but through this body – mind. To help others do the same. This is salvation. This is Heaven on Earth”
“The truth is within all of us. We all come from the same source. We are part of it. And therefore, we have knowledge of it. When we awaken, and we all will eventually, then we will know what we have always known. We are one.”
“Work on shaping your today, tomorrow will take care of itself.”
“Prosperity can never succeed in an environment where the mind has deliberately allowed the poverty weeds to flourish.”
“Our beliefs have the capacity to breakthrough every steely barriers to land us in the place of our dominating dreams.”
“The mind is a filtration arena,for it can filter poverty away & it can also filter riches away.”
“What are you seeking? Spiritual Health or Monetary Wealth? While the latter will dissolve, the former will make you evolve!”
“Wisdom never came from age-old books, it is best learned through pain and suffering and even joy, it's learned not in a moment, but by restless nights and never ending days”
“There is so much abundance flowing within the universe that thinking lack automatically makes you to be among the majority that detest massive prosperity.”
“Today is important in history & so all human activities should exhibit this awareness,for once today slips by,its only the memory that will linger.”
“Believe in positivity and it shall glitter all around you.”
“Once you say that you are perfect, it actually means you are dead, because you are killing the opportunity to improve and grow.”
“Spiritual teachers attempt to teach that which is beyond all thoughts and words. But being in the human condition we use thoughts and words to communicate. Do not get caught up on the teacher, their thoughts or words. Focus on the lesson, the concept. To focus on the sign post, is to miss the message. The message is not the sign post, but where the sign post is pointing.”
“Human consciousness is identified with thought and emotion. It is of the body and mind. Phenomenon of the physical world. Spiritual consciousness is beyond the body and mind, outside of physical reality. We do not think spiritual consciousness. We experience it. We understand and know it because we are it. When we look past the conditioning and the mind, then we awaken to what we are. Immortal spiritual beings temporarily in the human condition. We awaken to spiritual consciousness.”
“Success and failure are relative categories. Therefore, do not exult in victory and do not despair after defeat. Accept the changes in life placidly, knowing that autumn and winter come after summer.”
“Have your own convictions. Believe in the laws of your conscience because if you believe in everything, you become nothing.”
“Ingratitude is the root cause of extreme poverty & lack, for gratitude breeds abundance.”
“The spoken word is like a seed,it sows &reaps in multiple folds after its kind.”
“Belief is the foundation where success resides.”
“Life has got no problems,it has only got men with small beliefs.”
“We can rise above life's uncertainties if we dare to believe.”
“Those that believe in today have confidently secured the ticket to a successful tomorrow.”
“Passion ignites success.”
“Every seed has the potentials of becoming a tree & even a forest but until you faithfully sow it into the soil.”
“Those who you surround yourself with; are a mirror image of who you are yourself.”
“Their will always be people who will try to use your talent to promote their dreams, Stamp on them and move forward”
“When the makeup melts off, when the spike of the heel breaks, when the wig on the head falls off, when the painted fake nails chip apart, that is when they find out how ugly they truly are.”
“In all my endeavors,
you are the stimulus that ameliorates my skills,
and catapults me into the success of perfection!”
“'DESIRE' is like a Candle....it does not emits light until it is lit....IGNITE YOUR DESIRE.”
“Die with the belief that your life has made the difference.”
“Those who take Risks overcome their Fears and Tears over the Years.”
“We should always respect our teachers, because transforming children into knowledge-oriented young people is a precious and extremely difficult job.”
“It can be accepted that there is a price for man's work, time spent or service done, but never for human dignity.”
“Criticism addressed to a person can only be of benefit if it was said in the right way and at the right time.”
“Life is an art, an empty canvas that is yet to be filled by the colors of love”
“Physical beauty arrives and departs in a jiffy. What remains behind forever is a beautiful soul.”
“My success is protected by a combination lock; it’s taken me most of my life to find the code to unlock it...”
“If you can’t pioneer new roads, then pioneer a new journey and sell tickets to the ride...”
“If you can’t see your vision, nobody else ever will...”
“You can run as fast as you can, but you will never escape yourself...”
“It is in the best interest of the human beings to take inspiration from gods and work diligently towards their goal. ”
“So you want crazy? I can do crazy...”
“So you want crazy? I invented crazy...”
“If your doors keep on becoming walls, your ideas are not explosive enough...”
“Stop shaking the tree of life to get the nuts, grow your own tree and sell the nuts...”
“In a world that has everything, it’s time to create the nothing...”
“The best dreams are those you inspire to make real”
“The best dreams are those you inspire to make real”
“He's an inspiration to everyone out here, especially guys like me who've struggled to stay in the league. He's a great person to model yourself after.”
“When we are in human consciousness, we identify with the body – mind. We believe we are one and the same. We then project everything through that point of view. From the view point of the ego. But we are not the ego. The ego is a function of the brain. A phenomenon of the body. A view point that allows us to operate in the time – space continuum. But it is a limited view point. A view point that separates us from others and God. Heaven or hell is up to us. Spiritual consciousness is the way.”
“The physical world of matter is a reality. But it is a reality within a larger reality. Matter is made of energy. Everything in the universe is made of energy. We have consciousness. We are consciousness aware of itself. We are pure conscious energy. Energy cannot be created nor destroyed. So, we are immortal pure conscious energy. We have existed before our human incarnation, and we will still exist after. We are immortal pure conscious energy.”
“If you couldn’t see the real me, you probably never will...”
“She's very humble. She's such an inspiration. She came here and thrived and didn't give up. She inspires other people to keep going.”
“Finding beautiful places in my mind, is very hard; luckily they got a pill for that...”
“A simple way to be grateful is to close your eyes for a minute and think of those who never got a chance to open them.”
“God brings the sunshine and the rain to all of us. After every storm, there is a brighter flower that blooms within my soul.”
“The moment you release fear and fully embrace faith, your life will change, forever!”
“The easiest route to riches is to roll up your sleeves &work.”
“Beget a seed today,for your seed is the only gateway to your harvest.”
“Those that believe in something today will have something to be remembered for when tomorrow comes.”
“Service is the prerequisite for riches filled life.”
“Those willing to serve shall in turn be served riches all their lives.”
“Events will eventually turn out successful if we learn to dream with faith &have faith in our dreams.”
“Be careful of following to many people as you may lose sight of your own direction and miss out on being the best version of yourself.”
“Just give me an chance & I will do better than what you expect from me ...”
“I was struggling in that competition where I had given my best”
“Age is neither a limit nor an exception to realize your true potential or the way you want to live your life ~Kashaf Shaikh (Co-founder, Dealivore)”
“The best thing you should do is to be yourself!”
“Look at nature. A single bee cannot really do much. But you put a group of bees together and they can form a hive. A colony of bees that work in harmony. Each one doing its part. Some bees collect pollen. Some bees tend to the hive. Some bees guard the hive. Some bees tend to the nursery. Together they make a lot of honey.”
“We have evolved to this point. All is as it should be. But it is time to wake up, to gain consciousness, to learn and to adapt, to evolve, to move into a much larger reality. It is time to collectively wake up, to move out of the collective sub conscious and into collective consciousness. It is time to complete the collective mind.”
“Science is proving more and more each day what some spiritual teachers have been teaching for thousands of years. With each awakening the cosmic mind gets a little brighter. As we evolve so will the cosmic forces of creation. The human race and planet earth will heal. Poverty, starvation, and war, will someday be a thing of the past. We create our own reality. We collectively create a much larger reality. The next step in mankind’s evolution will be spiritual.”
“Yes, it does matter who you are in the world where everyone tries to be someone.”
“What really keeps me inspired is to get messages across.”
“How can you call that man ugly when he showers you with praise and compliments? You! Who plasters her face with paint!”
“If you want to take control, the key is having no doubt.”
“When great men want to execute wonders they enlist the support of imagination.”
“The journey to a blissful tomorrow can never begin with a doubtful mind.”
“Give me a sane & thinking mind and I will make the world an insanely rich place.”
“Those that constantly work with fear & unbelief shall have failure trend over their lives without remorse.”
“Our thoughts are like magnets that automatically attract success or failure stories unto our lives according to its kind.”
“In the days of abundance hope for lack not because one is a negative thinker,but because, abundance & lack are cycles of life.”
“Believe greatly in your small beginnings today,for greatness shall emerge out of the small tomorrow.”
“How can we resolve life's numerous challenges? By engaging in the thinking voyage.”
“Acquiring knowledge through the centuries has influenced human society more than all other factors.”
“The development of civilization was marked by constant changes. This will continue – therefore, the future will belong to people ready for change.”
“We should enjoy every minute we live today because who knows if we will have a chance to do so tomorrow.”
“The people who overcome their fears are the ones who can achieve their dreams.”
“True friendship doesn't include jealousy.”
“That was very inspirational for us to write the lyrics and music and everything else that goes together with the album. It's amazing. It's a great book. It's almost like a bible. It's such a long trip. I learned a lot from it.”
“Purify your mind with beliefs & success will be guaranteed.”
“He who pays the piper dictates the tune,for dreams always dictate the tune for resources to dance to.”
“Man will get no progress to testify about if he decides to foolishly abandon the thinking adventure.”
“Believe in today,for today is the gateway to a blissful tomorrow.”
“Absolutely believe in today, for today has all it takes to conceive &birth your dreams.”
“There will come a time when people will realize the greatest mysteries of the universe: will a human then meet anything other than himself?”
“Bliss exists at the point of equilibrium, find your equilibrium.”
“Stop Listening to the Sea of Doubt and Start Seeing the Rewards of Success.”
“I have flaws like everyone else, I don't deal well with adversity and get through it the hard way most of the time but that doesn't mean I'm stubborn and It just brings out the best of me in the end, but that doesn't mean the end is near either; I wont leave you to figure out this conundrum by yourself, what it means is I'm not easy prey, I'm big game, deal with it.”
“In proper meditation, we learn to watch our thoughts. We can then consciously live in this moment the way we desire. We simply choose to accept or reject any thoughts or emotions that surface. They are either part of what we want to be as a human being or not. They are either constructive or destructive. As we make these determinations our reality shifts. This moment becomes the best it can be. We begin to evolve. Moment by moment we grow. Moment by moment we live.”
“Perception determines our reality, our life experience, our sub conscious programming, our physical and mental health. Perception may control our lives, but we control perception. Perception is interpretation by the brain. It can be of the sub conscious or conscious. While conscious, we determine our perception.”
“Negative programming. We write the programs. And we can rewrite the programs. If we drop the negative self- talk. If we drop the negative self- beliefs. If we drop the negative world view. Then we drop the negative programs. Think about the word negative. It refers to negative energy. What we put our energy into we create more of. Focusing on the negative is like praying for what we don’t want. If we stop putting energy into what we don’t want, then we stop creating it.”
“We can choose to continue with the existing reality, or we can choose to change the world we live in by learning, by evolving, by becoming conscious of our programs, and re-writing them as needed to create what we want. Simply, we cannot realize who we truly are by remaining who we have been. And so it is collectively. It is up to us to change ourselves. It is up to us to change the world.”
“Proper meditation develops awareness, allowing us balance through consciousness. Rather than living the life of a slave to our programming, we are liberated from our thoughts and emotions. We become the watcher, the observer of our thoughts. Aware of what programs are running, and in this moment able to re-write any that are negative or destructive. In this moment, we simply re-record the music we want for our lives. It is our movie, and we are the writers, directors, and actors.”
“Stress takes us out of our conscious mind, and into our sub-conscious mind. A fast reactionary mode necessary for survival, but locking us into our programming, a mere shadow of life. By proper meditation, we shift our physical and mental state from the state of disease, to a state of healing, and collectively we do this on a planetary scale. We also shift from being governed by the sub-conscious, to a conscious state of mind. When we do this collectively, we complete the collective mind.”
“an inspiration on and off the football field, as with all who made the ultimate sacrifice in the war on terror.”
“Out of the grave, we are brave to receive grace.”
“Success is valuable because failure is available.”
“Grace is great because of his grave.”
“Don’t let the present pass in sorrow, hoping that the future will be full of Joy.”
“A wise man does not give quick answers to complex questions – he observes, analyzes and contemplates.”
“The older the friendship, the stronger the trust.”
“Instead of trying to change the world, rebuild it in code...”
“QUALIFICATIONS MAY GUARANTEE A JOB BUT PASSION WILL GUARANTEE SUCCESS !”
“If the word 'challenge did not exist, neither would 'success'! Conquer challenges one by one; if defeated, bounce back on your feet.”
“Those that begin small & remain consistent shall be eternal friends with riches.”
“It takes purpose,passion & precision to advance purposefully to the place called success.”
“Mentality is the key,once our mentality goes wrong every other thing becomes wrong in our lives.”
“Those that dine with consistency shall meet success in an unusual way.”
“The mind has the ultimate power to manifest that which it has made real within.”
“The moment we see the small position we are currently occupying as an opportunity to impact society,then the world will be a far better place.”
“TRANQUILITY IS THE STATE OF MIND WHEN NOTHING ELSE MATTERS !”
“Put your heart in whatever you do,but never put your life.”
“It takes lack to appreciate abundance & it takes poverty to appreciate riches.”
“Resources does not dictate to dreams, rather it is dreams that determines what resources should amount.”
““Being broke is part of the journey. Staying broke is a fucking choice.””
““No one is to blame for your future situation but yourself. If you want to be successful, then become "Successful".””
“Collective Consciousness. We have collectively created this reality. Old beliefs produce old results. We can collectively solve any problem, rewrite any program, create any reality. We do this by doing our individual parts and then collectively we complete the whole of humanity. This reality is collective consciousness. When we are collectively of one mind and conscious of what we are creating, then an unlimited new world opens up to us.”
“TO LEARN NEW THINGS FOR THE FUTURE WE HAVE TO UNLEARN FEW THINGS FROM THE PAST !”
“ATTITUDE DECIDES WHETHER A PARTICULAR SITUATION IS A LIABILITY OR AN OPPORTUNITY!”
“WE DO NOT GET EN-LIGHTENED VERY EASILY BECAUSE OUR MIND TRAVELS FASTER THAN LIGHT !”
“IT IS IMPORTANT TO HAVE A PURPOSE IN LIFE OTHERWISE LIFE BECOMES PURPOSE LESS!”
“IT IS BETTER TO CREATE BEAUTIFUL MEMORIES WHEN THE PERSON IS ALIVE THAN TO BUILD MEMORIALS WHEN THE PERSON IS DEAD !”
“RESOLUTION IS A PROMISE TO FIND A SOLUTION TO AN EXISTING PROBLEM !”
“VISUALIZE THE GOAL WITH YOUR EYES CLOSED AND ACHIEVE THE GOAL WITH YOUR EYES OPEN !”
“LIFE IS NOT A RAT RACE BUT A JOURNEY TO BE LIVED AT OUR OWN PACE !”
“IN LIFE WE SEARCH FOR PEACE, IN DEATH WE REST IN PEACE [RIP] !”
“by the act of disobedience one is demoted from the position while as by the action of disobedience one is promoted into the position replacing the disobedient person that is David and Saul.”
“the obedient DAVID replaces the disobedient SAUL from the Kingship position ... beware”
