
“There's nothing more you can do unless and unless, if you can move on by thinking your last love life also been a story like an ancient history!”
“Once is a Mistake But Twice is not a Mistake!”
“The ache of grief is always there,
but the emptiness will lift one day.
Their life to us the greatest gift,
and only by living can it be repaid.”
“The most important thing in life is to learn how to give out love, and to let it come in.”
“SUCCESS is for the BRAVE! TRIUMPH awaits to those, that are brave enough to undergo through the trials and tribulations!”
“A hero acts good largely in cinema as insight shows that many reel-life villains are better in nature than most movies’ lead actors in real-life, but the film comedians are usually the best of them in actual life.”
“The best day of your life is the one on which you decide your life is your own. No apologies or excuses. No one to lean on, rely on, or blame. The gift is yours - it is an amazing journey - and you alone are responsible for the quality of it. This is the day your life really begins.”
“Where there is an end, there is a beginning”
“To laugh often and much; to win the respect of intelligent people and the affection of children...to leave the world a better place...to know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived. This is to have succeeded.”
“I know we only live once. But that doesn't mean live fast and die young. There is more youth six feet under! Than the elderly in nursing homes.”
“LET GO OF THE PAST! For the past is not holding on to you, you're the one holding on to it.”
“To laugh often and much; to win the respect of intelligent people and the affection of children...to leave the world a better place...to know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived. This is to have succeeded.”
“The most innovative adventure is to live life of your dream.”
“It's time to open your eyes, and notice.You are almost there, DON'T let YOUR pain and YOUR struggles, blur your vision. Keep that dream alive, for it is yours and only you can achieve it and bring it to life.”
“"When you are not looking, they find you, the people that you always missed when you were looking."
-Rachael Jancowski, 2013.”
“Forgiveness is the BEST part of our LIFE!”
“I refuse to live My life under the shadows of doubts and fears! For I know who I am and I know where I'm going!....”
“No body won't understand you unless and unless except your self realising the fact and the conclusion for your own matter!”
“My neighborhood made me every thing i am, my parents made me everything i'm not.”
“Life is about finding happiness through the challenge and chaos of life. Embrace the experience and you will be enriched.”
“The tragedy of life is not that it ends so soon, but that we wait so long to begin it.”
“I've learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.”
“The best day of your life is the one on which you decide your life is your own. No apologies or excuses. No one to lean on, rely on, or blame. The gift is yours - it is an amazing journey - and you alone are responsible for the quality of it. This is the day your life really begins.”
“Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma - which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don't let the noise of other's opinions drown out your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary.”
“Life is like riding a bicycle. To keep your balance you must keep moving”
“Life is really simple, but we insist on making it complicated.”
“I have found that if you love life, life will love you back.”
“Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live forever.”
“Life is really simple, but we insist on making it complicated.”
“Don't cry because it's over. Smile because it happened.”
“Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma - which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don't let the noise of other's opinions drown out your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary.”
“And in the end, it's not the years in your life that count. It's the life in your years.”
“You have enemies? Good. That means you've stood up for something, sometime in your life.”
“To laugh often and much; to win the respect of intelligent people and the affection of children...to leave the world a better place...to know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived. This is to have succeeded.”
“Life's challenges are not supposed to paralyze you, they're supposed to help you discover who you are.”
“And in the end, it's not the years in your life that count. It's the life in your years.”
“Life is what happens to you while you're busy making other plans”
“If you want to live a happy life, tie it to a goal, not to people or things.”
“Life isn't about finding yourself. Life is about creating yourself.”
“Sing like no one's listening, love like you've never been hurt, dance like nobody's watching, and live like its heaven on earth.”
“Only as high as I reach can I grow, only as far as I seek can I go, only as deep as I look can I see, only as much as I dream can I be.”
“The road of life twists and turns and no two directions are ever the same. Yet our lessons come from the journey, not the destination.”
“Nobody can go back and start a new beginning, but anyone can start today and make a new ending.”
“Perhaps our eyes need to be washed by our tears once in a while, so that we can see Life with a clearer view again.”
“If you wait to do everything until you're sure it's right, you'll probably never do much of anything.”
“Don't cry because it's over. Smile because it happened.”
“In three words I can sum up everything I've learned about life. It goes on.”
“Learn from yesterday, live for today, hope for tomorrow.”
“Work like you don't need the money, love like your heart has never been broken, and dance like no one is watching”
“God allows us to experience the low points of life in order to teach us lessons we could not learn in any other way. The way we learn those lessons is not to deny the feelings but to find the meanings underlying them.”
“Live life fully while you're here. Experience everything. Take care of yourself and your friends. Have fun, be crazy, be weird. Go out and screw up! You're going to anyway, so you might as well enjoy the process. Take the opportunity to learn from your mistakes: find the cause of your problem and eliminate it. Don't try to be perfect; just be an excellent example of being human.”
“The hardest thing in life is to know which bridge to cross and which to burn”
“You have to learn the rules of the game. And then you have to play better than anyone else.”
“The most important thing in life is to learn how to give out love, and to let it come in.”
“Look at life through the windshield, not the rear-view mirror”
“Success is not final, failure is not fatal: it is the courage to continue that counts.”
“Only a life lived for others is worth living”
“I've learned that no matter what happens, or how bad it
seems today, life does go on, and it will be better tomorrow. I've learned that
you can tell a lot about a person by the way he/she handles these three things:
a rainy day, lost luggage, and tangled Christmas tree lights. I've learned that
regardless of your relationship with your parents, you'll miss them when they're
gone from your life. I've learned that making a living is not the same thing as
making a life. I've learned that life sometimes gives you a second chance. 
I've learned that you shouldn't go through life with a catcher's mitt on both
hands; you need to be able to throw some things back. I've learned that whenever
I decide something with an open heart, I usually make the right decision. I've
learned that even when I have pains, I don't have to be one. I've learned that
every day you should reach out and touch someone. People love a warm hug, or
just a friendly pat on the back. I've learned that I still have a lot to learn. 
I've learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you
did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.”
“The difference between school and life? In school, you're taught a lesson and then given a test. In life, you're given a test that teaches you a lesson.”
“Don't wait until everything is just right. It will never be perfect. There will always be challenges, obstacles and less than perfect conditions. So what. Get started now. With each step you take, you will grow stronger and stronger, more and more skilled, more and more self-confident and more and more successful.”
“We make a living by what we get, but we make a life by what we give.”
“Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live forever.”
“I’ve learned that making a "living" is not the same thing as making a "life."”
“The most unfair thing about life is the way it ends. I mean, life is tough. It takes up a lot of your time. What do you get at the end of it? A Death! What's that, a bonus? I think the life cycle is all backwards. You should die first, get it out of the way. Then you live in an old age home. You get kicked out when you're too young, you get a gold watch, you go to work. You work forty years until you're young enough to enjoy your retirement. You do drugs, alcohol, you party, you get ready for high school. You go to grade school, you become a kid, you play, you have no responsibilities, you become a little baby, you go back into the womb, you spend your last nine months floating...
...and you finish off as an orgasm.”
“It's a funny thing about life; if you refuse to accept anything but the best, you very often get it.”
“Life is partly what we make it, and partly what it is made by the friends we choose.”
“To the world you may be just one person, but to one person you may be the world.”
“Life does not have to be perfect to be wonderful.”
“The best day of your life is the one on which you decide your life is your own. No apologies or excuses. No one to lean on, rely on, or blame. The gift is yours - it is an amazing journey - and you alone are responsible for the quality of it. This is the day your life really begins.”
“Thousands of candles can be lit from a single candle, and the life of the candle will not be shortened. Happiness never decreases by being shared.”
“Do not go where the path may lead; go instead where there is no path and leave a trail”
“Your living is determined not so much by what life brings to you as by the attitude you bring to life; not so much by what happens to you as by the way your mind looks at what happens.”
“I would much rather have regrets about not doing what people said, than regretting not doing what my heart led me to and wondering what life had been like if I'd just been myself.”
“We must become the change we want to see.”
“Life is the art of drawing without an eraser.”
“Courage doesn't always roar. Sometimes courage is the quiet voice at the end of the day saying, "I will try again tomorrow.”
“Be who you are and say what you feel because those who mind don't matter and those who matter don't mind.”
“Throughout life people will make you mad, disrespect you and treat you bad. Let God deal with the things they do, cause hate in your heart will consume you too.”
“Fear less, hope more; Eat less, chew more; Whine less, breathe more; Talk less, say more; Love more, and all good things will be yours”
“There are many things in life that will catch your eye, but only a few will catch your heart...pursue those.”
“Two things are infinite: the universe and human stupidity; and I'm not sure about the the universe.”
“I would rather live my life as if there is a God and die to find out there isn't, than live my life as if there isn't and die to find out there is.”
“Life has taught us that love does not consist in gazing at each other, but in looking outward together in the same direction”
“The biggest adventure you can take is to live the life of your dreams.”
“I may not have gone where I intended to go, but I think I have ended up where I intended to be.”
“love life, engage in it, give it all you've got. love it with a passion, because life truly does give back, many times over, what you put into it”
“When I stand before God at the end of my life, I would hope that I would not have a single bit of talent left, and could say, "I used everything you gave me.”
“The best years of your life are the ones in which you decide your problems are your own. You do not blame them on your mother, the ecology, or the president. You realize that you control your own destiny.”
“The tragedy of life is not that it ends so soon, but that we wait so long to begin it.”
“A woman has got to love a bad man once or twice in her life, to be thankful for a good one”
“God, grant me the serenity to accept the things I cannot change, the courage to change the things I can, and the wisdom to know the difference.”
“The secret of health for both mind and body is not to mourn for the past, worry about the future, or anticipate troubles, but to live in the present moment wisely and earnestly.”
“Our lives a series of defining moments,
strung together by passing time.
Surrender fully to this moment,
because it is not the moment itself that defines us,
but how we choose to live in it.”
“Remember that everyone you meet is afraid of something, loves something, and has lost something”
“Remember that everyone you meet is afraid of something, loves something, and has lost something”
“Time you enjoy wasting, was not wasted.”
“If you are not too long, I will wait here for you all my life.”
“The purpose of life is not to be happy. It is to be useful, to be honorable, to be compassionate, to have it make some difference that you have lived and lived well.”
“Man cannot discover new oceans unless he has the courage to lose sight of the shore.”
“I have found that if you love life, life will love you back.”
“If your actions inspire others to dream more, learn more, do more and become more, you are a leader.”
“You can't always get what you want, but if you try sometimes, you might find, you get what you need”
“Remember that everyone you meet is afraid of something, loves something, and has lost something”
“The difference between school and life? In school, you're taught a lesson and then given a test. In life, you're given a test that teaches you a lesson.”
“Always do what you are afraid to do.”
“Oh, you hate your job? Why didn't you say so? There's a support group for that. It's called EVERYBODY, and they meet at the bar.”
“We are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars.”
“There are two ways to live: you can live as if nothing is a miracle; you can live as if everything is a miracle.”
“One way to become famous, is to be yourself”
“Before you speak, listen.
Before you write, think.
Before you spend, earn.
Before you invest, investigate.
Before you criticize, wait.
Before you pray, forgive.
Before you quit, try.
Before you retire, save.
Before you die, give.”
“Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things that you didn't do than by the ones you did do. So throw off the bowlines. Sail away from the safe harbor. Catch the trade winds in your sails. Explore. Dream. Discover.”
“The best day of your life is the one on which you decide your life is your own. No apologies or excuses. No one to lean on, rely on, or blame. The gift is yours - it is an amazing journey - and you alone are responsible for the quality of it. This is the day your life really begins.”
“I've been absolutely terrified every moment of my life -- and I've never let it keep me from doing a single thing I wanted to do.”
“God allows us to experience the low points of life in order to teach us lessons we could not learn in any other way. The way we learn those lessons is not to deny the feelings but to find the meanings underlying them.”
“The future belongs to those who believe in the beauty of their dreams.”
“One of the advantages of being disorderly is that one is constantly making exciting discoveries.”
“Keep love in your heart. A life without it is like a sunless garden when the flowers are dead.”
“The tragedy of life is not that it ends so soon, but that we wait so long to begin it.”
“Life is never fair, and perhaps it is a good thing for most of us that it is not.”
“This is what you shall do: love the earth and sun, and animals, despise riches, give alms to every one that asks, stand up for the stupid and crazy, devote your income and labor to others, hate tyrants, argue not concerning God, have patience and indulgence towards the people, take off your hat to nothing known or unknown, or to any man or number of men; go freely with the powerful uneducated persons, and with the young, and mothers, of families: read these leaves in the open air every season of every year of your life: re-examine all you have been told at school or church, or in any books, and dismiss whatever insults your soul.”
“Fear less, hope more; Eat less, chew more; Whine less, breathe more; Talk less, say more; Love more, and all good things will be yours”
“Work like you don't need the money, love like your heart has never been broken, and dance like no one is watching”
“To live is the rarest thing in the world. Most people exist, that is all.”
“The ache of grief is always there,
but the emptiness will lift one day.
Their life to us the greatest gift,
and only by living can it be repaid.”
“God gave us the gift of life; it is up to us to give ourselves the gift of living well.”
“You can't base your life on other people's expectations.”
“Life is one fool thing after another whereas love is two fool things after each other.”
“Most people fail in life because they major in minor things.”
“The more you praise and celebrate your life, the more there is in life to celebrate.”
“Each player must accept the cards life deals him or her: but once they are in hand, he or she alone must decide how to play the cards in order to win the game.”
“True wisdom comes to each of us when we realize how little we understand about life, ourselves, and the world around us.”
“Life is too important to be taken seriously.”
“I am responsible. Although I may not be able to prevent the worst from happening, I am responsible for my attitude toward the inevitable misfortunes that darken life. Bad things do happen; how I respond to them defines my character and the quality of my life. I can choose to sit in perpetual sadness, immobilized by the gravity of my loss, or I can choose to rise from the pain and treasure the most precious gift I have – life itself.”
“The ideals which have lighted my way, and time after time have given me new courage to face life cheerfully have been kindness, beauty, and truth”
“One life is all we have and we live it as we believe in living it. But to sacrifice what you are and to live without belief, that is a fate more terrible than dying.”
“Being deeply loved by someone gives you strength, while loving someone deeply gives you courage.”
“You never lose by loving. You always lose by holding back.”
“You never lose by loving. You always lose by holding back.”
“Before you criticize someone, you should walk a mile in their shoes. That way when you criticize them, you are a mile away from them and you have their shoes.”
“The greatest happiness of life is the conviction that we are loved -- loved for ourselves, or rather, loved in spite of ourselves.”
“And in the end, it's not the years in your life that count. It's the life in your years.”
“Death is not the greatest loss in life. The greatest loss is what dies inside us while we live.”
“The energy of the mind is the essence of life.”
“For everything you have missed, you have gained something else, and for everything you gain, you lose something else.”
“this is my life. it is my one time to be me. i want to experience every good thing.”
“Life is 10% of what happens to me and 90% of how I react to it.”
“All life is an experiment. The more experiments you make the better.”
“Success is to be measured not so much by the position that one has reached in life... as by the obstacles which he has overcome while trying to succeed.”
“Whatever you are, be a good one.”
“One's real life is so often the life that one does not lead.”
“Life begins at 40 - but so do fallen arches, rheumatism, faulty eyesight, and the tendency to tell a story to the same person, three or four times.”
“A person starts to live when he can live outside himself.”
“The road of life twists and turns and no two directions are ever the same. Yet our lessons come from the journey, not the destination.”
“We all at certain times in our lives find ourselves broken. True strength is found in picking up the pieces.”
“If you think nobody cares if you're alive, try missing a couple of car payments.”
“I've learned that no matter what happens, or how bad it
seems today, life does go on, and it will be better tomorrow. I've learned that
you can tell a lot about a person by the way he/she handles these three things:
a rainy day, lost luggage, and tangled Christmas tree lights. I've learned that
regardless of your relationship with your parents, you'll miss them when they're
gone from your life. I've learned that making a living is not the same thing as
making a life. I've learned that life sometimes gives you a second chance. 
I've learned that you shouldn't go through life with a catcher's mitt on both
hands; you need to be able to throw some things back. I've learned that whenever
I decide something with an open heart, I usually make the right decision. I've
learned that even when I have pains, I don't have to be one. I've learned that
every day you should reach out and touch someone. People love a warm hug, or
just a friendly pat on the back. I've learned that I still have a lot to learn. 
I've learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you
did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.”
“Live life fully while you're here. Experience everything. Take care of yourself and your friends. Have fun, be crazy, be weird. Go out and screw up! You're going to anyway, so you might as well enjoy the process. Take the opportunity to learn from your mistakes: find the cause of your problem and eliminate it. Don't try to be perfect; just be an excellent example of being human.”
“As a well spent day brings happy sleep, so a life well spent brings happy death.”
“Women are meant to be loved, not to be understood.”
“Happiness is the meaning and the purpose of life, the whole aim and end of human existence”
“When we long for life without difficulties, remind us that oaks grow strong in contrary winds and diamonds are made under pressure”
“The difference between school and life? In school, you're taught a lesson and then given a test. In life, you're given a test that teaches you a lesson.”
“Without music, life would be a mistake.... I would only believe in a God who knew how to dance.”
“Life's tragedy is that we get old too soon and wise too late”
“There are four questions of value in life... What is sacred? Of what is the spirit made? What is worth living for, and what is worth dying for? The answer to each is the same. Only love.”
“For my part I know nothing with any certainty, but the sight of the stars makes me dream.”
“Life is all about timing... the unreachable becomes reachable, the unavailable become available, the unattainable... attainable. Have the patience, wait it out It's all about timing.”
“The quality of your life is the quality of your relationships.”
“All that we are is the result of what we have thought.”
“The fear of death follows from the fear of life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.”
“Our truest life is when we are in dreams awake.”
“Keep away from those who try to belittle your ambitions. Small people always do that, but the really great make you believe that you too can become great.”
“Life shrinks or expands in proportion to one's courage.”
“Live with intention. Walk to the edge. Listen hard. Practice wellness. Play with abandon. Laugh. Choose with no regret. Appreciate your friends. Continue to learn. Do what you love. Live as if this is all there is.”
“Before you speak, listen.
Before you write, think.
Before you spend, earn.
Before you invest, investigate.
Before you criticize, wait.
Before you pray, forgive.
Before you quit, try.
Before you retire, save.
Before you die, give.”
“I laugh, I love, I hope, I try, I hurt, I need, I fear, I cry. And I know you do the same things too, So we're really not that different, me and you.”
“We're so busy watching out for what's just ahead of us that we don't take time to enjoy where we are.”
“Women marry men hoping they will change. Men marry women hoping they will not. So each is inevitably disappointed.”
“If we could see the miracle of a single flower clearly, our whole life would change.”
“Amor Fati – “Love Your Fate”, which is in fact your life.”
“One word frees us of all the weight and pain of life: that word is love.”
“Live life fully while you're here. Experience everything. Take care of yourself and your friends. Have fun, be crazy, be weird. Go out and screw up! You're going to anyway, so you might as well enjoy the process. Take the opportunity to learn from your mistakes: find the cause of your problem and eliminate it. Don't try to be perfect; just be an excellent example of being human.”
“Hold fast to dreams, For if dreams die, Life is a broken-winged bird that cannot fly, Hold fast to dreams, For if dreams go, Life is a barren field, Frozen with snow”
“Find something you love to do and you'll never have to work a day in your life”
“Life is an opportunity, benefit from it. Life is a beauty, admire it. Life is a dream,
realize it. Life is a challenge, meet it. Life is a duty, complete it. Life is a game,
play it. Life is a promise, fulfill it. Life is sorrow, overcome it. Life is a song, sing
it. Life is a struggle, accept it. Life is a tragedy, confront it. Life is an adventure,
dare it. Life is luck, make it. Life is life, fight for it!”
“Life has been your art. You have set yourself to music. Your days are your sonnets.”
“The only thing constant in life is change”
“A woman has got to love a bad man once or twice in her life, to be thankful for a good one”
“It is better to keep your mouth closed and let people think you are a fool than to open it and remove all doubt.”
“Twenty years from now you will be more disappointed by the things that you didn't do than by the ones you did do. So throw off the bowlines. Sail away from the safe harbor. Catch the trade winds in your sails. Explore. Dream. Discover.”
“Life is a challenge, meet it! Life is a dream, realize it! Life is a game, play it! Life is Love, enjoy it!”
“If you can't convince them, confuse them.”
“The most important things in life aren't things.”
“Only those who will risk going too far can possibly find out how far one can go.”
“Love me when I least deserve it, because that's when I really need it.”
“Life is to be fortified by many friendships. To love and to be loved is the greatest happiness of existence.”
“How much of human life is lost in waiting.”
“I started out with nothing. I still have most of it.”
“Not necessarily someone who is clever he was wise, but if someone is wise he definitely clever”
“It is one of the most beautiful compensations of life, that no man can sincerely try to help another without helping himself”
“We cannot all do great things, but we can do small things with great love.”
“Without faith, hope and trust, there is no promise for the future, and without a promising future, life has no direction, no meaning and no justification.”
“Life was a funny thing that occurred on the way to the grave”
“Experience is the name every one gives to their mistakes.”
“It is not length of life, but depth of life.”
“Weakness of attitude becomes weakness of character.”
“What if a demon were to creep after you one night, in your loneliest loneliness, and say, 'This life which you live must be lived by you once again and innumerable times more; and every pain and joy and thought and sigh must come again to you, all in the same sequence. The eternal hourglass will again and again be turned and you with it, dust of the dust!' Would you throw yourself down and gnash your teeth and curse that demon? Or would you answer, 'Never have I heard anything more divine'?”
“If you don't set a baseline standard for what you'll accept in life, you'll find it's easy to slip into behaviors and attitudes or a quality of life that's far below what you deserve.”
“The most important thing in life is to learn how to give out love, and to let it come in.”
“Open your eyes, look within. Are you satisfied with the life you're living?”
“To succeed in life, you need two things: ignorance and confidence.”
“The most unfair thing about life is the way it ends. I mean, life is tough. It takes up a lot of your time. What do you get at the end of it? A Death! What's that, a bonus? I think the life cycle is all backwards. You should die first, get it out of the way. Then you live in an old age home. You get kicked out when you're too young, you get a gold watch, you go to work. You work forty years until you're young enough to enjoy your retirement. You do drugs, alcohol, you party, you get ready for high school. You go to grade school, you become a kid, you play, you have no responsibilities, you become a little baby, you go back into the womb, you spend your last nine months floating...
...and you finish off as an orgasm.”
“I love sleep. My life has the tendency to fall apart when I'm awake, you know?”
“I love you not only for what you are, but for what I am when I am with you. I love you not only for what you have made of yourself, but for what you are making of me. I love you for the part of me that you bring out.”
“We must let go of the life we have planned, so as to accept the one that is waiting for us.”
“For beautiful eyes, look for the good in others; for beautiful lips, speak only words of kindness; and for poise, walk with the knowledge that you are never alone.”
“There are only two tragedies in life: one is not getting what one wants, and the other is getting it.”
“The world is a stage, but the play is badly cast.”
“Life is a gift, and it offers us the privilege, opportunity, and responsibility to give something back by becoming more”
“Life is either a great adventure or nothing.”
“Do not lose hold of your dreams or asprirations. For if you do, you may still exist but you have ceased to live.”
“Life wastes itself while we are preparing to live”
“Hold fast to your dreams, for without them life is a broken winged bird that cannot fly.”
“Don't rely on someone else for your happiness and self worth. Only you can be responsible for that. If you can't love and respect yourself - no one else will be able to make that happen. Accept who you are - completely; the good and the bad - and make changes as YOU see fit - not because you think someone else wants you to be different.”
“Strive not to be a success, but rather to be of value.”
“Keep love in your heart. A life without it is like a sunless garden when the flowers are dead. The consciousness of loving and being loved brings a warmth and richness to life that nothing else can bring.”
“Intellectual growth should commence at birth and cease only at death”
“Wise men speak because they have something to say; Fools because they have to say something.”
“love life, engage in it, give it all you've got. love it with a passion, because life truly does give back, many times over, what you put into it”
“Life has taught us that love does not consist in gazing at each other, but in looking outward together in the same direction”
“There are four questions of value in life... What is sacred? Of what is the spirit made? What is worth living for, and what is worth dying for? The answer to each is the same. Only love.”
“You are the embodiment of the information you choose to accept and act upon. To change your circumstances you need to change your thinking and subsequent actions.”
“You must know that in any moment a decision you make can change the course of your life forever: the very next person stand behind in line or sit next to on an airplane, the very next phone call you make or receive, the very next movie you see or book you read or page you turn could be the one single thing that causes the floodgates to open, and all of the things that you've been waiting for to fall into place.”
“Life is the first gift, love is the second, and understanding the third”
“Dream as if you'll live forever, live as if you'll die today.”
“He who is not everyday conquering some fear has not learned the secret of life.”
“We can never judge the lives of others, because each person knows only their own pain and renunciation. It's one thing to feel that you are on the right path, but it's another to think that yours is the only path.”
“Living with integrity means: Not settling for less than what you know you deserve in your relationships. Asking for what you want and need from others. Speaking your truth, even though it might create conflict or tension. Behaving in ways that are in harmony with your personal values. Making choices based on what you believe, and not what others believe.”
“Sometimes it's the smallest decisions that can change your life forever.”
“Memory is a way of holding on to the things you love, the things you are, the things you never want to lose.”
“Life is thickly sown with thorns, and I know no other remedy than to pass quickly through them. The longer we dwell on our misfortunes, the greater is their power to harm us.”
“The great consolation in life is to say what one thinks”
“I am an excitable person who only understands life lyrically, musically, in whom feelings are much stronger as reason. I am so thirsty for the marvelous that only the marvelous has power over me. Anything I can not transform into something marvelous, I let go. Reality doesn't impress me. I only believe in intoxication, in ecstasy, and when ordinary life shackles me, I escape, one way or another. No more walls.”
“Remember that as a teenager you are at the last stage of your life when you will be happy to hear that the phone is for you.”
“Life is the flower for which love is the honey.”
“I put all my genius into my life; I put only my talent into my works.”
“Life exists for the love of music or beautiful things.”
“There are two great days in a person's life -- the day we are born and the day we discover why.”
“Only a life lived for others is a life worth while.”
“You grow up the day you have your first real laugh -- at yourself.”
“If the essence of my being has caused a smile to have appeared upon your face or a touch of joy within your heart.Then in living - I have made my mark.”
“Believe me! The secret of reaping the greatest fruitfulness and the greatest enjoyment from life is to live dangerously!”
“Always look on the bright side of life.”
“a good friend is a connection to life- a tie to the past,a road to the future,the key to sanity in a totally insane world”
“To live a creative life, we must lose our fear of being wrong.”
“We are all travellers in the wilderness of this world, and the best we can find in our travels is an honest friend”
“People don’t want their lives fixed. Nobody wants their problems solved. Their dramas. Their distractions. Their stories resolved. Their messes cleaned up. Because what would they have left? Just the big scary unknown.”
“Work like you don't need the money, love like your heart has never been broken, and dance like no one is watching”
“When the power of love overcomes the love of power, the world will know peace.”
“To insure good health: eat lightly, breathe deeply, live moderately, cultivate cheerfulness, and maintain an interest in life.”
“Life is suffering.”
“Relaxation means releasing all concern and tension and letting the natural order of life flow through one's being”
“You see things; and you say, 'Why?' But I dream things that never were; and I say, 'Why not?'”
“Every saint has a past and every sinner has a future.”
“Life's challenges are not supposed to paralyze you, they're supposed to help you discover who you are.”
“You can't have everything. Where would you put it?”
“I would rather live my life as if there is a God and die to find out there isn't, than live my life as if there isn't and die to find out there is.”
“Why can we remember the tiniest detail that has happened to us, and not remember how many times we have told it to the same person.”
“Life's challenges are not supposed to paralyze you, they're supposed to help you discover who you are.”
“The only disability in life is a bad attitude.”
“The first half of my life I went to school, the second half of my life I got an education.”
“Life is not meant to be easy, my child; but take courage -- it can be delightful.”
“The things that we love tell us what we are.”
“Don’t ask what the world needs. Ask what makes you come alive, and go do it. Because what the world needs is people who have come alive.”
“One of the hardest things in life is having words in your heart that you can't utter.”
“In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity.”
“The most important questions in life can never be answered by anyone except oneself.”
“I challenge you to make your life a masterpiece. I challenge you to join the ranks of those people who live what they teach, who walk their talk.”
“Nobody can go back and start a new beginning, but anyone can start today and make a new ending.”
“What you leave behind is not what is engraved in stone monuments, but what is woven into the lives of others.”
“I believe life is constantly testing us for our level of commitment, and life's greatest rewards are reserved for those who demonstrate a never-ending commitment to act until they achieve. This level of resolve can move mountains, but it must be constant and consistent. As simplistic as this may sound, it is still the common denominator separating those who live their dreams from those who live in regret.”
“I believe that everything happens for a reason. People change so that you can learn to let go, things go wrong so that you appreciate them when they're right, you believe lies so you eventually learn to trust no one but yourself, and sometimes good things fall apart so better things can fall together.”
“It is every man's obligation to put back into the world at least the equivalent of what he takes out of it.”
“Listen to the mustn'ts, child. Listen to the don'ts. Listen to the shouldn'ts, the impossibles, the won'ts. Listen to the never haves, then listen close to me... Anything can happen, child. Anything can be.”
“Life may change, but it may fly not; Hope may vanish, but can die not; Truth be veiled, but still it burneth; Love repulsed, - but it returneth.”
“You never find yourself until you face the truth”
“Sometimes I think the surest sign that intelligent life exists elsewhere in the universe is that none of it has tried to contact us.”
“We can have in life but one great experience at best, and the secret of life is to reproduce that experience as often as possible.”
“The devil has put a penalty on all things we enjoy in life. Either we suffer in health or we suffer in soul or we get fat.”
“If life keeps asking you the same questions....You are NOT learning the lessons...”
“Too often we underestimate the power of a touch, a smile, a kind word, a listening ear, an honest compliment, or the smallest act of caring, all of which have the potential to turn a life around.”
“In life you need either inspiration or desperation.”
“A kiss may ruin a human life.”
“The only thing worse than being talked about is not being talked about.”
“Hatred paralyses life; love releases it. Hatred confuses life; love harmonizes it. Hatred darkens life; love illuminates it.”
“We can easily forgive a child who is afraid of the dark; the real tragedy of life is when men are afraid of the light.”
“Every person, all the events of your life, are there because you have drawn them there. What you choose to do with them is up to you.”
“It is not a lack of love, but a lack of friendship that makes unhappy marriages.”
“Many people will walk in and out of your life, but only true friends will leave footprints in your heart”
“We delight in the beauty of the butterfly, but rarely admit the changes it has gone through to achieve that beauty.”
“Life is really simple, but we insist on making it complicated.”
“To know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived - that is to have succeeded”
“Remember that everyone you meet is afraid of something, loves something, and has lost something”
“Finding the right Question is more valuable and rewarding than finding the right Answer.”
“Let yourself be open and life will be easier. A spoon of salt in a glass of water makes the water undrinkable. A spoon of salt in a lake is almost unnoticed.”
“Don't walk in front of me; I may not follow. Don't walk behind me; I may not lead. Just walk beside me and be my friend.”
“The soul is born old but grows young. That is the comedy of life. And the body is born young and grows old. That is life's tragedy.”
“Trust yourself. You know more than you think you do.”
“If you live to be 100, I hope I live to be 100 minus 1 day, so I never have to live without you.”
“Maxim for life: You get treated in life the way you teach people to treat you.”
“Wherever you go, go with all your heart.”
“I lived in solitude in the country and noticed how the monotony of a quiet life stimulates the creative mind”
“Unless a life is lived for others, it is not worthwhile”
“Pretend that every single person you meet has a sign around his or her neck that says, ''Make me feel important.'' Not only will you succeed in sales, you will succeed in life.”
“How ridiculous and unrealistic is the man who is astonished at anything that happens in life.”
“People are like stained-glass windows. They sparkle and shine when the sun is out, but when the darkness sets in, their true beauty is revealed only if there is a light from within.”
“Our prime purpose in this life is to help others. And if you can't help them, at least don't hurt them.”
“Nearly all men can stand adversity, but if you want to test a man's character, give him power.”
“There are two tragedies in life. One is to lose your heart's desire. The other is to gain it.”
“A life spent making mistakes is not only more honorable but more useful than a life spent doing nothing.”
“I am ready to meet my Maker. Whether my Maker is prepared for the ordeal of meeting me is another matter.”
“The way you get meaning into your life is to devote yourself to loving others, devote yourself to your community around you, and devote yourself to creating something that gives you purpose and meaning.”
“You see, in life, lots of people know what to do, but few people actually do what they know. Knowing is not enough! You must take action.”
“It's not the men in my life that counts--it's the life in my men.”
“LIFE is a mosaic of pleasure and pain - grief is an interval between two moments of joy. Peace is the interlude between two wars. You have no rose without a thorn; the diligent picker will avoid the pricks and gather the flower. There is no bee without the sting; cleverness consists in gathering the honey nevertheless.”
“Go confidently in the direction of your dreams. Live the life you have imagined.”
“Committing a great truth to memory is admirable; committing it to life is wisdom.”
“One of the illusions of life is that the present hour is not the critical, decisive hour. Write it on your heart that every day is the best day in the year. No man has learned anything rightly, until he knows that every day is Doomsday.”
“Our business in life is not to get ahead of others, but to get ahead of ourselves -- to break our own records, to outstrip our yesterday by our today.”
“When choosing between two evils, I always like to try the one I've never tried before.”
“You can have everything in life you want, if you will just help other people get what they want”
“I never regret anything. Because every little detail of your life is what made you into who you are in the end.”
“Life can only be understood backwards; but it must be lived forwards.”
“If you're going to tell people the truth, be funny or they'll kill you.”
“Life without love is like a tree without blossoms or fruit.”
“Smile....Even when you life is at its worst, you never know when you'll meet the one who takes your breath away!”
“If I had to live my life again, I'd make the same mistakes, only sooner.”
“Man does not control his own fate. The women in his life do that for him.”
“I’ve learned that making a "living" is not the same thing as making a "life."”
“When we remember we are all mad, the mysteries disappear and life stands explained.”
“Life is my college. May I graduate well, and earn some honors!”
“Because of your smile, you make life more beautiful.”
“Love is like a Rubix Cube, there are countless numbers of wrong twists and turns, but when you get it right, it looks perfect no matter what way you look at it”
“Life is not a continuum of pleasant choices, but of inevitable problems that call for strength, determination, and hard work”
“No matter how far life pushes you down, no matter how much you hurt, you can always bounce back.”
“How far you go in life depends on your being tender with the young, compassionate with the aged, sympathetic with the striving and tolerant of the weak and strong. Because someday in your life you will have been all of these.”
“Life is ten percent what happens to you and ninety percent how you respond to it.”
“The unexamined life is not worth living.”
“Life is not a problem to be solved, but a reality to be experienced.”
“What is human life? The first third a good time; the rest remembering about it”
“Life does not consist mainly, or even largely, of facts and happenings. It consists mainly of the storm of thought that is forever flowing through one's head.”
“You are in integrity when the life you are living on the outside matches who you are on the inside.”
“I realize that humor isn't for everyone. It's only for people who want to have fun, enjoy life, and feel alive.”
“Life is a gift. Never take it for granted.”
“The road of life twists and turns and no two directions are ever the same. Yet our lessons come from the journey, not the destination.”
“Life does not cease to be funny when people die any more than it ceases to be serious when people laugh.”
“There are only two ways to live your life. One is as though nothing is a miracle. The other is as though everything is a miracle.”
“There are moments in life, when the heart is so full of emotion That if by chance it be shaken, or into its depths like a pebble Drops some careless word, it overflows, and its secret, Spilt on the ground like water, can never be gathered together”
“To be able to look back upon ones life in satisfaction, is to live twice”
“In the book of life, the answers aren't in the back.”
“Life is the only game in which the object of the game is to learn the rules”
“Love is like energy. It can never be created nor destroyed...it is just always there. You just have to realize that fact and you have to learn that as soon as you stopped loving him in the way you did that love left to somewhere else. Now all you have to do is find out where that love went. That love went to whoever the next person in your life will be. That next person could be one of your friends or someone you might dislike, you just have to find that out.”
“The most important thing in life is to learn how to give out love, and to let it come in.”
“Life is 10% what happens to you and 90% how you react to it”
“The art of life lies in taking pleasures as they pass, and the keenest pleasures are not intellectual, nor are they always moral.”
“Laugh at yourself and at life. Not in the spirit of derision or whining self-pity, but as a remedy, a miracle drug, that will ease your pain, cure your depression, and help you to put in perspective that seemingly terrible defeat and worry with laughter at your predicaments, thus freeing your mind to think clearly toward the solution that is certain to come. Never take yourself too seriously.”
“If you can find a path with no obstacles, it probably doesn't lead anywhere.”
“Life is a succession of lessons which must be lived to be understood.”
“Love the life you live. Live the life you love.”
“If you don't design your own life plan, chances are you'll fall into someone else's plan. And guess what they have planned for you? Not much.”
“One only needs two tools in life: WD-40 to make things go, and duct tape to make them stop.”
“Life is a train of moods like a string of beads; and as we pass through them they prove to be many colored lenses, which paint the world their own hue, and each shows us only what lies in its own focus.”
“When I was a kid I used to pray every night for a new bicycle. Then I realised that the Lord doesn't work that way so I stole one and asked Him to forgive me.”
“One's real life is often the life that one does not lead”
“. . . as one goes through life one learns that if you don't paddle your own canoe, you don't move.”
“Life may not be the party we hoped for, but while we're here we should dance”
“Never be bullied into silence. Never allow yourself to be made a victim. Accept no one's definition of your life, but define yourself.”
“The purpose of life, after all, is to live it, to taste experience to the utmost, to reach out eagerly and without fear for newer and richer experiences.”
“Today is the first day of the rest of your life.”
“Dogs are not our whole life, but they make our lives whole.”
“Life is inherently risky. There is only one big risk you should avoid at all costs, and that is the risk of doing nothing.”
“You do the right thing even if it makes you feel bad. The purpose of life is not to be happy but to be worthy of happiness.”
“If life were predictable it would cease to be life, and be without flavor”
“A well-developed sense of humor is the pole that adds balance to your steps as you walk the tightrope of life.”
“If you want to live a happy life, tie it to a goal, not to people or things.”
“If you're respectful by habit, 
constantly honoring the worthy, 
four things increase:
long life, beauty,
happiness, strength.”
“Life is too short to spend your precious time trying to convince a person who wants to live in gloom and doom otherwise. Give lifting that person your best shot, but don't hang around long enough for his or her bad attitude to pull you down. Instead, surround yourself with optimistic people.”
“People come into your life and people leave it... you just have to trust that life has a road mapped out for you.”
“It is the food which you furnish to your mind that determines the whole character of your life”
“When I was young, I thought that money was the most important thing in life; now that I am old, I know it is”
“Little men with little minds and little imaginations go through life in little ruts, smugly resisting all changes which would jar their little worlds”
“If you live to be a hundred, I want to live to be a hundred minus one day so I never have to live without you.”
“For every dark night, there's a brighter day”
“The opposite of love is not hate, it's indifference. The opposite of art is not ugliness, it's indifference. The opposite of faith is not heresy, it's indifference. And the opposite of life is not death, it's indifference.”
“To me, there are three things we all should do every day. We should do this every day of our lives. Number one is laugh. You should laugh every day. Number two is think. You should spend some time in thought. And number three is, you should have your emotions moved to tears, could be happiness or joy. But think about it. If you laugh, you think, and you cry, that's a full day. That's a heck of a day. You do that seven days a week, you're going to have something special.”
“Dreams do come true, if we only wish hard enough.You can have anything in life if you will sacrifice everything else for it.”
“One of the secrets of life is that all that is really worth the doing is what we do for others”
“Your life is the sum result of all the choices you make, both consciously and unconsciously. If you can control the process of choosing, you can take control of all aspects of your life. You can find the freedom that comes from being in charge of yourself.”
“Reality is merely an illusion, although a very persistent one”
“The man who says he has exhausted life generally means that life has exhausted him.”
“Your only obligation in any lifetime is to be true to yourself.”
“We only live once, but once is enough if we do it right. Live your life with class, dignity, and style so that an exclamation, rather than a question mark signifies it!”
“The highest education is that which does not merely give us information but makes our life in harmony with all existence.”
“Put your hand on a hot stove for a minute, and it seems like an hour. Sit with a pretty girl for an hour, and it seems like a minute. THAT'S relativity.”
“All religions, arts and sciences are branches of the same tree. All these aspirations are directed toward ennobling man's life, lifting it from the sphere of mere physical existence and leading the individual towards freedom.”
“We all at certain times in our lives find ourselves broken. True strength is found in picking up the pieces.”
“All of life is a risk; in fact we're not going to get out alive. Casualness leads to casualties. Communication is the ability to affect other people with words.”
“Take up one idea. Make that one idea your life - think of it, dream of it, live on that idea. Let the brain, muscles, nerves, every part of your body, be full of that idea, and just leave every other idea alone. This is the way to success, that is way great spiritual giants are produced.”
“If life keeps asking you the same questions....You are NOT learning the lessons...”
“When you can do the common things of life in an uncommon way, you will command the attention of the world”
“You only live once, but if you do it right, once is enough.”
“If you don't change your beliefs, your life will be like this forever. Is that good news?”
“We write to taste life twice, in the moment and in retrospection”
“We're born alone, we live alone, we die alone. Only through our love and friendship can we create the illusion for the moment that we're not alone.”
“There are no failures - just experiences and your reactions to them.”
“To do the useful thing, to say the courageous thing, to contemplate the beautiful thing: that is enough for one man's life.”
“Too much sanity may be madness and the maddest of all, to see life as it is and not as it should be.”
“life is a gift, and i try to respond with grace and courtesy”
“There is only one happiness in this life, to love and be loved.”
“Tell me I'm clever, Tell me I'm kind, Tell me I'm talented, Tell me I'm cute, Tell me I'm sensitive, Graceful and wise, Tell me I'm perfect-- But tell me the truth.”
“Nothing is secure but life, transition, the energizing spirit.”
“Beware the barrenness of a busy life.”
“The average man does not know what to do with this life, yet wants another one which will last forever.”
“The noblest pleasure is the joy of understanding.”
“If A equals success, then the formula is A equals X plus Y and Z, with X being work, Y play, and Z keeping your mouth shut.”
“If you love life, don't waste time, for time is what life is made up of.”
“Pain makes man think. Thought makes man wise. Wisdom makes life endurable.”
“To accomplish great things, we must not only act, but also dream; not only plan, but also believe.”
“Without faith, love and a good sense of humor, you don't get through much in this life,”
“Life is truly known only to those who suffer, lose, endure adversity and stumble from defeat to defeat.”
“The pain that we cause is the cause of our pain.”
“When it comes to life the critical thing is whether you take things for granted or take them with gratitude.”
“Don't go around saying the world owes you a living; the world owes you nothing; it was here first”
“Alcohol is the anesthesia by which we endure the operation of life.”
“Strong hope is a much greater stimulant of life than any realized joy could be.”
“The secret of life is to appreciate the pleasure of being terribly deceived”
“How can a woman be expected to be happy with a man who insists on treating her as if she were a perfectly normal human being.”
“I remember my mother's prayers and they have always followed me. They have clung to me all my life.”
“The greatest gift of life is friendship, and I have received it.”
“To become a spectator of one's own life is to escape the suffering of life.”
“We are not defined by our trials,
but by how we face them.
We are all afraid; bravery is a choice,
that though you may lose, you shall never be defeated.”
“Decorate your home. It gives the illusion that your life is more interesting than it really is.”
“Your life is an island separated from all other islands and continents. Regardless of how many boats you send to other shores or how many ships arrive upon your shores, you yourself are an island separated by its own pains, secluded in its happiness”
“The willingness to accept responsibility for one's own life is the source from which self-respect springs.”
“Life is full of beauty. Notice it. Notice the bumble bee, the small child, and the smiling faces. Smell the rain, and feel the wind. Live your life to the fullest potential, and fight for your dreams.”
“The error of one moment becomes the sorrow of a whole life”
“The price of anything is the amount of life you exchange for it.”
“Each moment of a happy lover's hour is worth an age of dull and common life”
“To enjoy life, we must touch much of it lightly”
“We do not live an equal life, but one of contrasts and patchwork; now a little joy, then a sorrow, now a sin, then a generous or brave action”
“Living a life is like constructing a building: if you start wrong, you'll end wrong.”
“Fashion your life as a garland of beautiful deeds.”
“The world is a playground, and life is pushing my swing.”
“The secret of life is in art.”
“I can teach anybody how to get what they want out of life. The problem is that I can't find anybody who can tell me what they want.”
“Without deep reflection one knows from daily life that one exists for other people .”
“There is no end. There is no beginning. There is only the passion of life.”
“Education is not a preparation for life; education is life itself.”
“We are not satisfied with real life; we want to live some imaginary life in the eyes of other people and to seem different from what we actually are”
“This life is yours. Take the power to choose what you want to do and do it well. Take the power to love what you want in life and love it honestly. Take the power to walk in the forest and be a part of nature. Take the power to control your own life. No one else can do it for you. Take the power to make your life happy.”
“Hope is the most exciting thing in life and if you honestly believe that love is out there, it will come. And even if it doesn't come straight away there is still that chance all through your life that it will.”
“If we really think that home is elsewhere and that this life is a 'wandering to find home,'' why should we not look forward to the arrival?”
“I think I've discovered the secret of life - you just hang around until you get used to it.”
“Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and reflect.”
“If I had my life to live over again, I'd be a plumber.”
“Looking good and dressing well is a necessity. Having a purpose in life is not.”
“Life's greatest happiness is to be convinced we are loved.”
“The monotony and solitude of a quiet life stimulates the creative mind.”
“Character develops itself in the stream of life.”
“What a wee little part of a person's life are his acts and his words! His real life is led in his head, and is known to none but himself”
“Life would be infinitely happier if we could only be born at the age of eighty and gradually approach eighteen”
“There is no passion to be found playing small - in settling for a life that is less than the one you are capable of living.”
“I love those who can smile in trouble, who can gather strength from distress, and grow brave by reflection.”
“There is no God, no universe, no human race, no earthly life, no heaven, no hell. It is all a dream, a grotesque and foolish dream. Nothing exists but you. And you are but a thought --a vagrant thought, a useless thought, a homeless thought, wandering forlorn among the empty eternities!”
“All you need in this life is ignorance and confidence, and then success is sure.”
“If you break your neck, if you have nothing to eat, if your house is on fire, then you've got a problem. Everything else is inconvenience.”
“You just have to do your own thing, no matter what anyone says. It's your life.”
“Very little is needed to make a happy life; it is all within yourself, in your way of thinking”
“The greatest discovery of all time is that a person can change his future by merely changing his attitude.”
“Perhaps they are not stars, but rather openings in heaven where the love of our lost ones pours through and shines down upon us to let us know they are happy.”
“I believe that every single event in life happens in an opportunity to choose love over fear.”
“I would rather die a meaningful death than to live a meaningless life.”
“He who cannot give anything away cannot feel anything either.”
“If one advances confidently in the direction of one's dreams, and endeavors to live the life which one has imagined, one will meet with a success unexpected in common hours.”
“Our life is frittered away by detail ... simplify, simplify.”
“When you are dispirited, held back, beat down and you have no one,you can give up, give in, or you can find those things you need to stand within yourself.If no one else believes in you, then you must believe in yourself.If you can not get the love you need from others, you must make room in your heart and give that love to yourself.You must accept yourself exactly as you are, all your flaws, all your faults, all your dreams.”
“Life must go on; I forget just why.”
“The best things in life are free.”
“If you want to feel rich, just count the things you have that money can't buy”
“Achieving life is not the equivalent of avoiding death.”
“We must be willing to fail and to appreciate the truth that often "Life is not a problem to be solved, but a mystery to be lived."”
“You CAN be all you imagine yourself to be. You WILL be everything you believe you are worth being.”
“My definition of success is to live your life in a way that causes you to feel a ton of pleasure and very little pain - and because of your lifestyle, have the people around you feel a lot more pleasure than they do pain.”
“When we have lost everything, including hope, life becomes a disgrace, and death a duty.”
“Wallow too much in sensitivity and you can't deal with life, or the truth.”
“The game of life is a lot like football. You have to tackle your problems, block your fears, and score your points when you get the opportunity.”
“When you are tough on yourself, life is going to be infinitely easier on you”
“Good friends, good books and a sleepy conscience: this is the ideal life.”
“Friendship marks a life even more deeply than love. Love risks degenerating into obsession, friendship is never anything but sharing.”
“Life is a tragedy when seen in close-up, but a comedy in long-shot.”
“They say a person needs just three things to be truly happy in this world: someone to love, something to do, and something to hope for.”
“When you temporarily run aground, remember that there are no failures in life. There are only results. Consider the adage: Success is the result of good judgment, good judgment is the result of experience, and experience is often the result of bad judgment!”
“Opportunities to find deeper powers within ourselves come when life seems most challenging.”
“During your life, never stop dreaming. No one can take away your dreams”
“When you give up on life, never give up on yourself, because there is so much for you to keep on giving!”
“Live your life and forget your age.”
“Men kick friendship around like a football but it doesn't seem to break. Women treat it like glass and it goes to pieces.”
“Love is anterior to life, posterior to death, initial of creation, and the exponent of breath.”
“Success is the ability to go from one failure to another with no loss of enthusiasm.”
“The most beautiful discovery true friends make is that they can grow separately without growing apart.”
“You cant always have what you want but it's important to want what you have.”
“Each man must look to himself to teach him the meaning of life. It is not something discovered: it is something molded.”
“Every time you smile at someone, it is an action of love, a gift to that person, a beautiful thing.”
“Life is a great big canvas, and you should throw all the paint you can on it.”
“Through humor, you can soften some of the worst blows that life delivers. And once you find laughter, no matter how painful your situation might be, you can survive it.”
“Football is like life -- it requires perseverance, self-denial, hard work, sacrifice, dedication and respect for authority.”
“Live the life you've dreamed”
“Not until we are lost do we begin to understand ourselves.”
“Live in the sunshine, swim the sea, drink the wild air…”
“Run for your life from any man who tells you that money is evil. That sentence is the leper's bell of an approaching looter.”
“If we don't know life, how can we know death?”
“I find it interesting that the meanest life, the poorest existence, is attributed to God's will, but as human beings become more affluent, as their living standard and style begin to ascend the material scale, God descends the scale of responsibility”
“To live is to choose. But to choose well, you must know who you are and what you stand for, where you want to go and why you want to get there.”
“Celebrate we will for life is short but sweet for certain”
“When we love anyone with our whole hearts, life begins when we are with that person; it is only in their company that we are really and truly alive.”
“Plenty of people miss their share of happiness, not because they never found it, but because they didn't stop to enjoy it.”
“There was a moment in my life when I really wanted to kill myself. And there was one other moment when I was close to that. . . . But even in my most jaded times, I had some hope.”
“Even in the common affairs of life, in love, friendship, and marriage, how little security have we when we trust our happiness in the hands of others!”
“The ultimate value of life depends upon awareness and the power of contemplation rather than upon mere survival.”
“Happiness comes of the capacity to feel deeply, to enjoy simply, to think freely, to risk life, to be needed.”
“My life has no purpose, no direction, no aim, no meaning, and yet I'm happy. I can't figure it out. What am I doing right?”
“Art is the proper task of life.”
“A proverb is no proverb to you until life has illustrated it”
“Life's most persistent and urgent question is, 'What are you doing for others?'”
“Execute every act of thy life as though it were thy last.”
“Better to live one year as a tiger, than a hundred as a sheep.”
“People grow through experience if they meet life honestly and courageously. This is how character is built.”
“Do not look where you fell but where you slipped”
“Women and cats will do as they please, and men and dogs should relax and get used to the idea.”
“I am of the opinion that my life belongs to the whole community and as long as I live, it is my privilege to do for it whatever I can. I want to be thoroughly used up when I die, for the harder I work the more I live.”
“The outer conditions of a person's life will always be found to reflect their inner beliefs”
“Every moment of your life is infinitely creative and the universe is endlessly bountiful. Just put forth a clear enough request, and everything your heart desires must come to you.”
“The man who regards his own life and that of his fellow creatures as meaningless is not merely unfortunate but almost disqualified for life”
“True love stories never have endings”
“Risks must be taken, because the greatest hazard in life is to risk nothing.”
“When you reach the heart of life you shall find beauty in all things, even in the eyes that are blind to beauty.”
“If there is no passion in your life, then have you really lived? Find your passion, whatever it may be. Become it, and let it become you and you will find great things happen FOR you, TO you and BECAUSE of you.”
“The saddest aspect of life right now is that science gathers knowledge faster than society gathers wisdom.”
“I am responsible. Although I may not be able to prevent the worst from happening, I am responsible for my attitude toward the inevitable misfortunes that darken life. Bad things do happen; how I respond to them defines my character and the quality of my life. I can choose to sit in perpetual sadness, immobilized by the gravity of my loss, or I can choose to rise from the pain and treasure the most precious gift I have – life itself.”
“Life isn't a matter of milestones but of moments”
“We love life, not because we are used to living but because we are used to loving.”
“You will never be happy if you continue to search for what happiness consists of. You will never live if you are looking for the meaning of life.”
“The longer I live, the more I realize the impact of attitude on life. Attitude, to me, is more important than facts. It is more important than the past, the education, the money, than circumstances, than failure, than successes, than what other people think or say or do. It is more important than appearance, giftedness or skill. It will make or break a company... a church... a home. The remarkable thing is we have a choice everyday regarding the attitude we will embrace for that day. We cannot change our past... we cannot change the fact that people will act in a certain way. We cannot change the inevitable. The only thing we can do is play on the one string we have, and that is our attitude. I am convinced that life is 10% what happens to me and 90% of how I react to it. And so it is with you... we are in charge of our Attitudes.”
“It is essential to our well-being, and to our lives, that we play and enjoy life. Every single day do something that makes your heart sing.”
“Wisdom is not a product of schooling but of the lifelong attempt to acquire it”
“Man cannot discover new oceans unless he has the courage to lose sight of the shore.”
“My life is my message.”
“Finish each day and be done with it. You have done what you could. Some blunders and absurdities no doubt crept in, forget them as soon as you can. Tomorrow is a new day, you shall begin it well and serenely...”
“To bring anything into your life, imagine that it's already there.”
“Friendship without self-interest is one of the rare and beautiful things of life”
“You can't stop loving or wanting to love because when its right, it's the best thing in the world. When you're in a relationship and it's good, even if nothing else in your life is right, you feel like your whole world is complete.”
“I am responsible. Although I may not be able to prevent the worst from happening, I am responsible for my attitude toward the inevitable misfortunes that darken life. Bad things do happen; how I respond to them defines my character and the quality of my life. I can choose to sit in perpetual sadness, immobilized by the gravity of my loss, or I can choose to rise from the pain and treasure the most precious gift I have – life itself.”
“The trouble with being punctual is that nobody's there to appreciate it.”
“You may encounter many defeats, but you must not be defeated. Please remember that your difficulties do not define you. They simply strengthen your ability to overcome.”
“Life's disappointments are harder to take when you don't know any swear words.”
“The true joy of life [is] being used for a purpose recognized by yourself as a mighty one ... being thoroughly worn out before you are thrown to the scrap heap ... being a force of nature instead of a feverish, selfish clod of ailments and grievances.”
“You have enemies? Good. That means you've stood up for something, sometime in your life.”
“Teach this triple truth to all: A generous heart, kind speech, and a life of service and compassion are the things which renew humanity.”
“May you live all the days of your life.”
“When life knocks you down, try to land on your back. Because if you can look up, you can get up. Let your reason get you back up.”
“Contact with a high-minded woman is good for the life of any man”
“The universe is change; our life is what our thoughts make it”
“The real reason for not committing suicide is because you always know how swell life gets again after the hell is over”
“Good taste is the excuse I've always given for leading such a bad life”
“I enjoy talking to you more than anybody else because I never feel I am giving myself away and so can admit to shady, dishonest, crawling, cowardly, unjust, arrogant, snobbish, lecherous, perverted and generally shameful feelings that I don't want anybody else to know about; but most of all because I am always on the verge of violent laughter when talking to you.
If you were here, I keep thinking, we would spend the time in talk and drink and smoke and I should be laughing a lot of the time, and I should be enjoying myself a lot of the time.”
“Be glad of life because it gives you the chance to love and to work and to play and to look up at the stars.”
“Beware the barrenness of a busy life.”
“Why should we think upon things that are lovely? Because thinking determines life. It is a common habit to blame life upon the environment. Environment modifies life but does not govern life. The soul is stronger than its surroundings.”
“But what is happiness except the simple harmony between a man and the life he leads?”
“The tragedy of life and of the world is not that men do not know God; the tragedy is that, knowing Him, they still insist on going their own way.”
“Be good and you will be lonely”
“Life is very interesting... in the end, some of your greatest pains, become your greatest strengths.”
“Life is a great big canvas, and you should throw all the paint on it you can”
“Adults are always asking little kids what they want to be when they grow up because they're looking for ideas”
“Nothing in life is so exhilarating as to be shot at without result.”
“There are no regrets in life, just lessons.”
“The mere mechanical technique of acting can be taught, but the spirit that is to give life to lifeless forms must be born in a man. No dramatic college can teach its pupils to think or to feel. It is Nature who makes our artists for us, though it may be Art who taught them their right mode of expression.”
“To live in this single moment,
this lightest breath, this softest touch,
to be captured by this smallest, this briefest space of time,
to be fully present, alive, consumed in this instant alone,
this is truly living.”
“When making your choice in life, do not neglect to live”
“Don't believe what your eyes are telling you. All they show is limitation. Look with your understanding, find out what you already know, and you'll see the way to fly.”
“When the solution is simple, God is answering.”
“The greatest and most important problems of life are all fundamentally insoluble. They can never be solved but only outgrown.”
“This life of separateness may be compared to a dream, a phantasm, a bubble, a shadow, a drop of dew, a flash of lightning.”
“In everyone's life, at some time, our inner fire goes out. It is then burst into flame by an encounter with another human being. We should all be thankful for those people who rekindle the inner spirit.”
“To love oneself is the beginning of a life-long romance”
“Carpe diem! Rejoice while you are alive; enjoy the day; live life to the fullest; make the most of what you have. It is later than you think.”
“He who experiences the unity of life sees his own Self in all beings, and all beings in his own Self, and looks on everything with an impartial eye.”
“Neither should a ship rely on one small anchor, nor should life rest on a single hope”
“In life, unlike chess, the game continues after checkmate”
“'I want out of the labels. I don't want my whole life crammed into a single word. A story. I want to find something else, unknowable, some place to be that's not on the map. A real adventure.' 
A spinx. A mystery. A blank. Unknown. Undefined.”
“What do we live for; if it is not to make life less difficult to each other?”
“I sold the memoirs of my sex life to a publisher - they are going to make a board game out of it”
“He lives the poetry that he cannot write. The others write the poetry that they dare not realise.”
“I have lived eighty years of life and know nothing for it, but to be resigned and tell myself that flies are born to be eaten by spiders and man to be devoured by sorrow.”
“There has never yet been a man in our history who led a life of ease whose name is worth remembering.”
“The personal life deeply lived always expands into truths beyond itself.”
“Life imitates art far more than art imitates life.”
“I have found that if you love life, life will love you back.”
“The supreme object of life is to live. Few people live. It is true life only to realize one's own perfection, to make one's every dream a reality.”
“I learned what is obvious to a child. That life is simply a collection of little lives, each lived one day at a time. That each day should be spent finding beauty in flowers and poetry and talking to animals. That a day spent with dreaming and sunsets and refreshing breezes cannot be bettered.”
“Dost thou love life? Then do not squander time, for that is the stuff life is made of.”
“Without music, life would be an error.”
“Could we change our attitude, we should not only see life differently, but life itself would come to be different.”
“I always like to look on the optimistic side of life, but I am realistic enough to know that life is a complex matter.”
“Life is too short to be living somebody else's dream.”
“Love is the flower of life, and blossoms unexpectedly and without law, and must be plucked where it is found, and enjoyed for the brief hour of its duration.”
“These then are my last words to you. Be not afraid of life. Believe that life is worth living and your belief will help create the fact.”
“Who knows? Maybe my life belongs to God. Maybe it belongs to me. But I do know one thing: I'm damned if it belongs to the government.”
“The secret to staying young is to live honestly, eat slowly, and lie about your age.”
“Life is a disease; and the only difference between one another is the stage of the disease at which he lives”
“That it shall never come again is what makes life so sweet”
“To devote your life to the good of all and to the happiness of all is religion. Whatever you do for your own sake is not religion”
“Life is full of misery, loneliness, and suffering - and it's all over much too soon.”
“As for me, to love you alone, to make you happy, to do nothing which would contradict your wishes, this is my destiny and the meaning of my life”
“Life is a game. Money is how we keep score.”
“My life is a simple thing that would interest no one. It is a known fact that I was born and that is all that is necessary.”
“Many times a day I realize how much my own life is built upon the labors of my fellowmen, and how earnestly I must exert myself in order to give in return as much as I have received”
“You will know what to live for when you determine what you're willing to die for.”
“There are two primary choices in life: to accept conditions as they exist, or accept the responsibility for changing them.”
“Never mistake knowledge for wisdom. One helps you make a living; the other helps you make a life.”
“It's faith in something and enthusiasm for something that makes a life worth living.”
“This is the strangest life I've ever known.”
“Your birth is a mistake you'll spend your whole life trying to correct.”
“To live a pure unselfish life, one must count nothing as one's own in the midst of abundance.”
“Desire is half of life; indifference is half of death.”
“The golden moments in the stream of life rush past us, and we see nothing but sand; the angels come to visit us, and we only know them when they are gone.”
“Are you bored with life? Then throw yourself into some work you believe in with all your heart, live for it, die for it, and you will find happiness that you had thought could never be yours”
“Life is painting a picture, not doing a sum.”
“Life is a process of becoming, a combination of states we have to go through. Where people fail is that they wish to elect a state and remain in it. This is a kind of death.”
“We believe that an informed citizenry will act for life and not for death.”
“It often happens that the real tragedies of life occur in such an inartistic manner that they hurt us by their crude violence, their absolute incoherence, their absurd want of meaning, their entire lack of style.”
“If your knees aren't green by the end of the day, you ought to seriously re-examine your life.”
“Three passions, simple but overwhelmingly strong, have governed my life: the longing for love, the search for knowledge, and unbearable pity for the suffering of mankind.”
“Life is too short to be small.”
“It is the spectator, and not life, that art really mirrors”
“Have the courage to live. Anyone can die.”
“In life as in dance: Grace glides on blistered feet”
“I do believe that when we face challenges in life that are far beyond our own power, it's an opportunity to build on our faith, inner strength, and courage. I've learned that how we face challenges plays a big role in the outcome of them.”
“We are not defined by our trials,
but by how we face them.
We are all afraid; bravery is a choice,
that though you may lose, you shall never be defeated.”
“If you really want something in this life you have to work for it. Now quiet, they're about to announce the lottery numbers”
“Be yourself; everyone else is already taken.”
“Life is one big road with lots of signs. So when you riding through the ruts, don't complicate your mind. Flee from hate, mischief and jealousy. Don't bury your thoughts, put your vision to reality . Wake Up and Live!”
“There may be a time in life when one is tired of everything and feels as if all one does is wrong, and there maybe some truth in it- do you think this is a feeling one must try to forget and to banish, or is it 'the longing for God,' which one must not fear, but cherish to see if it may bring us some good? Is it 'the longing for God' which leads us to make a choice which we never regret? Let us keep courage and try to be patient and gentle. And not mind being eccentric, and make distinction between good and evil.”
“Before I knew the best part of my life had come, it had gone”
“I think of life as a good book. The further you get into it, the more it begins to make sense.”
“To love one's self is the beginning of a life-long romance”
“It is more fun to talk with someone who doesn't use long, difficult words but rather short, easy words like "What about lunch?"”
“Life is a series of experiences, each of which makes us bigger, even though it is hard to realize this. For the world was built to develop character, and we must learn that the setbacks and grieves which we endure help us in our marching onward.”
“Never regret yesterday. Life is in you today, and you make your tomorrow.”
“If the person you are talking to doesn't appear to be listening, be patient. It may simply be that he has a small piece of fluff in his ear.”
“The one charm about marriage is that it makes a life of deception absolutely necessary for both parties.”
“Life is without meaning. You bring the meaning to it. The meaning of life is Whatever you ascribe it to be. Being alive is the meaning.”
“It is by going down into the abyss that we recover the treasures of life. Where you stumble, there lies your treasure.”
“Most things break, including hearts. The lessons of life amount not to wisdom, but to scar tissue and callus.”
“Stop acting as if life is a rehearsal. Live this day as if it were your last. The past is over and gone. The future is not guaranteed.”
“Your journey never ends. Life has a way of changing things in incredible ways.”
“Why love if losing hurts so much? I have no answers anymore; only the life I have lived. The pain now is part of the happiness then.”
“The good life is a process, not a state of being. It is a direction not a destination.”
“Life is one grand, sweet song, so start the music.”
“Life is hard. After all, it kills you.”
“Life must be lived as play.”
“Loneliness adds beauty to life. It puts a special burn on sunsets and makes night air smell better.”
“Life is an exciting business, and most exciting when it is lived for others.”
“How wonderful it is that nobody need wait a single moment before starting to improve the world.”
“It's very important in life to know when to shut up. You should not be afraid of silence.”
“On a long journey of human life, faith is the best of companions; it is the best refreshment on the journey; and it is the greatest property.”
“Music is the language of the spirit. It opens the secret of life bringing peace, abolishing strife.”
“There is more to life than increasing its speed.”
“People are always blaming their circumstances for what they are. I don't believe in circumstances. The people who get on in this world are the people who get up and look for the circumstances they want, and if they can't find them, make them”
“The great events of life often leave one unmoved; they pass out of consciousness, and, when one thinks of them, become unreal. Even the scarlet flowers of passion seem to grow in the same meadow as the poppies of oblivion.”
“Nothing in life is to be feared. It is only to be understood.”
“Who are you to judge the life I live? I know I'm not perfect and I don't live to be. But, before you start pointing fingers, make sure your hands are clean.”
“Life, is not a having and a getting, but a being and a becoming.”
“The only real failure in life is not to be true to the best one knows.”
“Freedom means you are unobstructed in living your life as you choose. Anything less is a form of slavery.”
“Why one man rather than another? It was odd. You find yourself involved with a fellow for life just because he was the one that you met when you were nineteen.”
“Life, love, and laughter - what priceless gifts to give our children”
“Our attitude toward life determines life's attitude towards us.”
“Expect trouble as an inevitable part of life and repeat to yourself, the most comforting words of all; This, too, shall pass.”
“Half of life is fucking up the other half is dealing with it.”
“Life consists in what a man is thinking of all day.”
“At fifteen life had taught me undeniably that surrender, in its place, was as honorable as resistance, especially if one had no choice.”
“Tell me what gives a man or woman their greatest pleasure and I'll tell you their philosophy of life.”
“The direction in which education starts a man will determine his future in life”
“One's life has value so long as one attributes value to the life of others, by means of love, friendship, indignation and compassion”
“For what avail the plough or sail, Or land or life, if freedom fail?”
“Finding the right Question is more valuable and rewarding than finding the right Answer.”
“You will find as you look back upon your life that the moments when you have really lived are the moments when you have done things in the spirit of love.”
“Make it a rule of life never to regret and never to look back. Regret is an appalling waste of energy, you can't build on it it's only good for wallowing in.”
“Life is like dancing. If we have a big floor, many people will dance. Some will get angry when the rhythm changes. But life is changing all the time.”
“You cant always have what you want but it's important to want what you have.”
“I believe that everything happens for a reason. People change so that you can learn to let go, things go wrong so that you appreciate them when they're right, you believe lies so you eventually learn to trust no one but yourself, and sometimes good things fall apart so better things can fall together.”
“Love, we say, is life; but love without hope and faith is agonizing death”
“The better part of valor is discretion, in the which better part I have saved my life”
“Life loves to be taken by the lapel and told: "I'm with you kid. Let's go."”
“The web of our life is of a mingled yarn, good and ill together.”
“Learn to get in touch with the silence within yourself, and know that everything in life has purpose. There are no mistakes, no coincidences, all events are blessings given to us to learn from.”
“The first half of life is spent in longing for the second - the second half in regretting the first”
“Do you want me to tell you something really subversive? Love is everything it's cracked up to be. That's why people are so cynical about it. It really is worth fighting for, being brave for, risking everything for. And the trouble is, if you don't risk anything, you risk even more.”
“Do not seek the because - in love there is no because, no reason, no explanation, no solutions.”
“Inspiration is the gift of those who have experienced life at its most defined moments.”
“All my life I have always known I was born to greatness.”
“Life has taught us that love does not consist in gazing at each other, but in looking together in the same direction.”
“The better part of one's life consists of his friendships.”
“The action required to sustain human life is primarily intellectual: everything man needs has to be discovered by his mind and produced by his effort”
“The Road goes ever on and on down from the door where it began. Now far ahead the Road has gone, and I must follow, if I can, pursuing it with eager feet, until it joins some larger way where many paths and errands meet. And whither then? I cannot say.”
“I'd give half my life for just one kiss. Mae West: Then kiss me twice.”
“You have to take risks. We will only understand the miracle of life fully when we allow the unexpected to happen.”
“If I had to choose a religion, the sun as the universal giver of life would be my god.”
“I destroy my enemies when I make them my friends.”
“The most wonderful of all things in life, I believe, is the discovery of another human being with whom one's relationship has a growing depth, beauty, and joy as the years increase. This inner progressiveness of love between two human beings is a most marvelous thing; it cannot be found by looking for it or by passionately wishing for it. It is a sort of divine accident, and the most wonderful of all things in life.”
“I have a lot of things to prove to myself. One is that I can live my life fearlessly.”
“Love is the greatest refreshment in life”
“It is better to create than to be learned, creating is the true essence of life”
“I swear, by my life and my love of it, that I will never live for the sake of another man, nor ask another man to live for mine.”
“" Life is filled with so many exciting twists and turns. Hop off the straight and narrow whenever you can and take the winding paths. Experience the exhilaration of the view from the edge. Because the moments spent there, that take your breath away, are what make you feel truly alive."
--- Copyright © 2000 Stacey Charter”
“Life is either a daring adventure or nothing. To keep our faces toward change and behave like free spirits in the presence of fate is strength undefeatable.”
“Love is our true destiny. We do not find the meaning of life by ourselves alone-we find it with another.”
“Sometimes the answer to prayer is not that it changes life, but that it changes you.”
“If God were suddenly condemned to live the life which He has inflicted upon men, He would kill Himself.”
“The greatest discovery of any generation is that a human being can alter his life by altering his attitude.”
“Think of the long view of life, not just what's going to happen today or tomorrow. Don't give up what you most want in life for something you think you want now.”
“When you respond to life, that's positive; when you react to life, that's negative.”
“If you live your life in the past, you waste the life you have to live.”
“The tragedy of life is what dies inside a man while he lives.”
“Do you believe in immortality? No, and one life is enough for me”
“You cannot control what happens to you, but you can control your attitude toward what happens to you, and in that, you will be mastering change rather than allowing it to master you.”
“The advantage of a bad memory is that one enjoys several times the same good things for the first time”
“The purpose of human life is to serve and to show compassion and the will to help others.”
“The quality of a person's life is in direct proportion to their commitment to excellence, regardless of their chosen field of endeavor.”
“He who does not see the angels and devils in the beauty and malice of life will be far removed from knowledge, and his spirit will be empty of affection.”
“Choose a job you love and you will never have to work a day in your life.”
“What greater thing is there for two human souls than to feel that they are joined for life - to strengthen each other in all labor, to rest on each other in all sorrow, to minister to each other in all pain, to be one with each other in silent, unspeakable memories.”
“It is quite true what Philosophy says: that Life must be understood backwards. But that makes one forget the other saying: that it must be lived /forwards. The more one ponders this, the more it comes to mean that life in the temporal existence never becomes quite intelligible, precisely because at no moment can I find complete quiet to take the backward-looking position.”
“Art washes away from the soul the dust of everyday life.”
“Short as life is, we make it still shorter by the careless waste of time”
“I believe that the very purpose of life is to be happy. From the very core of our being, we desire contentment. In my own limited experience I have found that the more we care for the happiness of others, the greater is our own sense of well-being. Cultivating a close, warmhearted feeling for others automatically puts the mind at ease. It helps remove whatever fears or insecurities we may have and gives us the strength to cope with any obstacles we encounter. It is the principal source of success in life. Since we are not solely material creatures, it is a mistake to place all our hopes for happiness on external development alone. The key is to develop inner peace.”
“And he goes through life, his mouth open, and his mind closed”
“There are two means of refuge from the miseries of life: music and cats.”
“Suffering! We owe to it all that is good in us, all that gives value to life; we owe to it pity, we owe to it courage, we owe to it all the virtues.”
“Life is not so short but that there is always time for courtesy”
“I couldn't commit suicide if my life depended on it”
“Life's challenges are not supposed to paralyze you, they're supposed to help you discover who you are.”
“There is not one big cosmic meaning for all, there is only the meaning we each give to our life, an individual meaning, an individual plot, like an individual novel, a book for each person.”
“The best way to waste your life, ... is by taking notes. The easiest way to avoid living is to just watch. Look for the details. Report. Don't participate.”
“There are no classes in life for beginners; right away you are always asked to deal with what is most difficult”
“If life were fair, Elvis would be alive and all the impersonators would be dead.”
“Dreams are necessary to life.”
“The closing years of life are like a masquerade party, when the masks are dropped”
“Do not brood over your past mistakes and failures as this will only fill your mind with grief, regret and depression. Do not repeat them in the future.”
“Every philosophy is the philosophy of some stage of life.”
“Success is the ability to go from one failure to another with no loss of enthusiasm.”
“The best portion of a good man's life is his little, nameless, unremembered acts of kindness and of love”
“If you can't explain it simply, you don't understand it well enough”
“Live your own life, for you will die your own death”
“Courage is resistance to fear, mastery of fear - not absence of fear”
“Change will never happen when people lack the ability and courage to see themselves for who they are.”
“Life is nothing but a competition to be the criminal rather than the victim.”
“We all have our own life to pursue, Our own kind of dream to be weaving... And we all have the power To make wishes come true, As long as we keep believing.”
“This is the true joy in life - being used for a purpose recognized by yourself as a mighty one.”
“Books stay with me and have shaped me and made huge impacts on my life.”
“I hope life isn't a big joke, because I don't get it.”
“Once you say you're going to settle for second, that's what happens to you in life.”
“There is a fountain of youth: it is your mind, your talents, the creativity you bring to your life and the lives of people you love. When you learn to tap this source, you will truly have defeated age.”
“Let us not underestimate the privileges of the mediocre. As one climbs higher, life becomes ever harder; the coldness increases, responsibility increases.”
“The tragedy of modern man is not that he knows less and less about the meaning of his own life, but that it bothers him less and less.”
“Life is no brief candle to me. It is a sort of splendid torch which I have got a hold of for the moment, and I want to make it burn as brightly as possible before handing it onto future generations.”
“The most instructive experiences are those of everyday life”
“Miracles, in the sense of phenomena we cannot explain, surround us on every hand: life itself is the miracle of miracles.”
“You live like this, sheltered, in a delicate world, and you believe you are living. Then you read a book(Lady Chatterley, for instance), or you take a trip, or you talk with Richard, and you discover that you are not living, that you are hibernating. The symptoms of hibernating are easily detectable: first, restlessness. The second symptom(when hibernating becomes dangerous and might degenerate into death): absence of pleasure. That is all. It appears like an innocuous illness. Monotony, boredom, death. Millions live like this(or die like this) without knowing it. They work in offices. They drive a car. They picnic with their families. They raise children. And then some shock treatment takes place, a person, a book, a song, and it awakens them and saves them from death."”
“If in our daily life we can smile, if we can be peaceful and happy, not only we, but everyone will profit from it. This is the most basic kind of peace work.”
“Life is a sum of all your choices.”
“Men often become what they believe themselves to be. If I believe I cannot do something, it makes me incapable of doing it. But when I believe I can, then I acquire the ability to do it even if I didn't have it in the beginning.”
“Trust yourself. Create the kind of self that you will be happy to live with all your life. Make the most of yourself by fanning the tiny, inner sparks of possibility into flames of achievement.”
“No, life has not disappointed me. On the contrary, I find it truer, more desirable and mysterious every year -- ever since the day when the great liberator came to me: the idea that life could be an experiment of the seeker for knowledge -- and not a duty, not a calamity, not trickery.”
“Life is never easy for those who dream.”
“Achieve success in any area of life by identifying the optimum strategies and repeating them until they become habits.”
“He felt that his whole life was some kind of dream and he sometimes wondered whose it was and whether they were enjoying it.”
“Life is a sexually transmitted disease and the mortality rate is one hundred percent.”
“One man cannot do right in one department of life whilst he is occupied in doing wrong in any other departments. Life is one indivisible whole.”
“The major value in life is not what you get. The major value in life is what you become.”
“The American lives even more for his goals, for the future, than the European. Life for him is always becoming, never being.”
“Our intonations contain our philosophy of life, what each of us is constantly telling himself about things”
“After all these years, I am still involved in the process of self-discovery. It's better to explore life and make mistakes than to play it safe. Mistakes are part of the dues one pays for a full life.”
“Life is a lot like jazz.. it's best when you improvise.”
“I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I have not lived.”
“The value of life is not in the length of days, but in the use we make of them; a man may live long yet very little.”
“The best things in life are unexpected - because there were no expectations.”
“All changes, even the most longed for, have their melancholy; for what we leave behind us is a part of ourselves; we must die to one life before we can enter another.”
“I have been a selfish being all my life, in practice, though not in principle.”
“If each man or woman could understand that every other human life is as full of sorrows, or joys, or base temptations, of heartaches and of remorse as his own . . . how much kinder, how much gentler he would be.”
“Each of us will one day be judged by our standard of life -- not by our standard of living; by our measure of giving -- not by our measure of wealth; by our simple goodness -- not by our seeming greatness.”
“Three Rules of Work: Out of clutter find simplicity; From discord find harmony; In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity.”
“It is hard to fail, but it is worse never to have tried to succeed. In this life we get nothing save by effort.”
“Uncertainty and mystery are energies of life. Don't let them scare you unduly, for they keep boredom at bay and spark creativity.”
“To lengthen thy life, lessen thy meals.”
“Life is pleasant. Death is peaceful. It's the transition that's troublesome.”
“Some cause happiness wherever they go; others whenever they go”
“Oh, I could spend my life having this conversation - look - please try to understand before one of us dies”
“Once you fully apprehend the vacuity of a life without struggle, you are equipped with the basic means of salvation.”
“Life belongs to the living, and he who lives must be prepared for changes.”
“True friendship comes when the silence between two people is comfortable.”
“My life has been one great big joke, A dance that's walked, A song that's spoke, I laugh so hard I almost choke, When I think about myself.”
“True religion is real living; living with all one's soul, with all one's goodness and righteousness.”
“Life only demands from you the strength that you possess. Only one feat is possible; not to run away.”
“The highest and most beautiful things in life are not to be heard about, nor read about, nor seen but, if one will, are to be lived.”
“I know someday you'll have a beautiful life. I know you'll be a sun in somebody else's sky. But why can't it be mine?”
“I have no regrets in my life. I think that everything happens to you for a reason. The hard times that you go through build character, making you a much stronger person.”
“Whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness it is the right of the people to alter or abolish it, and to institute new government...”
“Most people are other people. Their thoughts are someone else's opinions, their lives a mimicry, their passions a quotation.”
“If you believed more in life you would fling yourself less to the moment.”
“If you judge people, you have no time to love them.”
“Win as if you were used to it, lose as if you enjoyed it for a change.”
“A friendship that can end never really began”
“If you have no confidence in self, you are twice defeated in the race of life. With confidence, you have won even before you have started.”
“Life is really simple, but we insist on making it complicated.”
“Teaching is more than imparting knowledge, it is inspiring change.
Learning is more than absorbing facts, it is acquiring understanding.”
“Life's just a merry-go-round. Come on up. You might get a brass ring.”
“People are taken aback by a confident, pretty girl who knows what she wants in life and isn't going to let anyone get in her way. And you know what it's all about? Jealousy.”
“You are everything that is, your thoughts, your life, your dreams come true. You are everything you choose to be. You are as unlimited as the endless universe.”
“I have found that if you love life, life will love you back.”
“The man consummating his life dies his death triumphantly, surrounded by men filled with hope and making solemn vows.”
“I've been a long time coming, and I'll be a long time gone. You've got your whole life to do something, and that's not very long.”
“The man who insists upon seeing with perfect clearness before he decides, never decides. Accept life, and you must accept regret.”
“Life has no limitations, except the ones you make.”
“Fortune knocks at every man's door once in a life, but in a good many cases the man is in a neighboring saloon and does not hear her”
“Many that live deserve death. And some that die deserve life. Can you give it to them? Then do not be too eager to deal out death in judgement. For even the very wise cannot see all ends.”
“Read as you taste fruit or savor wine, or enjoy friendship, love or life.”
“Love is like a friendship caught on fire. In the beginning a flame, very pretty, often hot and fierce, but still only light and flickering. As love grows older, our hearts mature and our love becomes as coals, deep-burning and unquenchable.”
“Take a chance! All life is a chance. The man who goes farthest is generally the one who is willing to do and dare.”
“Difficult times have helped me to understand better than before, how infinitely rich and beautiful life is in every way, and that so many things that one goes worrying about are of no importance whatsoever...”
“Books can be dangerous. The best ones should be labeled "This could change your life."”
“I hated every minute of training, but I said, ''Don't quit. Suffer now and live the rest of your life as a champion.''”
“What seems to us as bitter trials are often blessings in disguise”
“Faith means living with uncertainty - feeling your way through life, letting your heart guide you like a lantern in the dark”
“The reason people find it so hard to be happy is that they always see the past better than it was, the present worse than it is, and the future less resolved than it will be”
“Kindness is the only service that will stand the storm of life and not wash out. It will wear well and will be remembered long after the prism of politeness or the complexion of courtesy has faded away.”
“Will you ever? I don’t think you will ever fully understand how you've touched my life and made me who I am.I don't think you could ever know just how truly special you are that even on the darkest nights you are my brightest star.”
“I consciously choose the dog's path through life. I shall be poor; I shall be a painter...”
“Kindness, I've discovered, is everything in life.”
“Who loses a day loses life”
“But there is suffering in life, and there are defeats. No one can avoid them. But it's better to lose some of the battles in the struggles for your dreams than to be defeated without ever knowing what you're fighting for.”
“Life loves the liver of it.”
“Every man passes his life in the search after friendship.”
“You cannot prevent the birds of sadness from passing over your head, but you can prevent their making a nest in your hair”
“It's sad when someone you know becomes someone you knew.”
“The only thing that stands between a man and what he wants from life is often merely the will to try it and the faith to believe that it is possible.”
“Contemplation often makes life miserable. We should act more, think less, and stop watching ourselves live.”
“What would life be if we had no courage to attempt anything?”
“I seldom end up where I wanted to go, but almost always end up where I need to be.”
“I have heard there are troubles of more than one kind. Some come from ahead and some come from behind. But I've bought a big bat. I'm all ready you see. Now my troubles are going to have troubles with me!”
“What is life? It is the flash of a firefly in the night. It is the breath of a buffalo in the wintertime. It is the little shadow which runs across the grass and loses itself in the sunset.”
“The object in life is not to be on the side of the majority, but to escape finding oneself in the ranks of the insane.”
“That I exist is a perpetual surprise which is life.”
“Teachers who educate children deserve more honor than parents who merely gave birth; for bare life is furnished by the one, the other ensures a good life”
“Achievement of your happiness is the only moral purpose of your life, and that happiness, not pain or mindless self-indulgence, is the proof of your moral integrity, since it is the proof and the result of your loyalty to the achievement of your values.”
“Patience, persistence and perspiration make an unbeatable combination for success”
“The great advantage of a hotel is that it's a great refuge from home life”
“I think people should mate for life, like pigeons or Catholics”
“Art is much less important than life, but what a poor life without it.”
“Man's love is of man's life a part; it is a woman's whole existence. In her first passion, a woman loves her lover, in all the others all she loves is love.”
“If you tell the truth you don't have to remember anything.”
“How do you pick up the threads of an old life? How do you go on, when in your heart you begin to understand there is no going back. There are some things that time can not mend. Some hurts that go too deep... that have taken hold.”
“There is only one happiness in life, to love and be loved.”
“If you want to be happy for a year, plant a garden; If you want to be happy for life, plant a tree.”
“Just as a candle cannot burn without fire, men cannot live without a spiritual life.”
“I believe that life is a journey, often difficult and sometimes incredibly cruel, but we are well equipped for it if only we tap into our talents and gifts and allow them to blossom.”
“If ever there is tomorrow when we're not together.. there is something you must always remember. you are braver than you believe, stronger than you seem, and smarter than you think. but the most important thing is, even if we're apart.. i'll always be with you.”
“Don't go through life, grow through life.”
“If there is sin against life, it consists… in hoping for another life and in eluding the implacable grandeur of this life.”
“The want of logic annoys. Too much logic bores. Life eludes logic, and everything that logic alone constructs remains artificial and forced.”
“I don't know if I should care for a man who made life easy; I should want someone who made it interesting”
“Life swings like a pendulum backward and forward between pain and boredom”
“I wish life was not so short, he thought. languages take such a time, and so do all the things one wants to know about.”
“For better or worse, you must play your own little instrument in the orchestra of life”
“Is life not a thousand times too short for us to bore ourselves?”
“This life as you live it now and have lived it, you will have to live again and again, times without number, and there will be nothing new in it, but every pain and every joy and every thought and sigh and all the unspeakably small and great in your life must return to you and everything in the same series and sequence -- and in the same way this spider and this moonlight among the trees, and this same way this moment and I myself. The eternal hour glass of existence will be turned again and again -- and you with it, you dust of dust!”
“Take control of your consistent emotions and begin to consciously and deliberately reshape your daily experience of life.”
“No one is in control of your happiness but you; therefore, you have the power to change anything about yourself or your life that you want to change.”
“In the end it is not the years in your life that count. It is the life in your years”
“Part of the secret of success in life is to eat what you like and let the food fight it out inside”
“There is no real evil in life, except great pain; all the rest is imaginary, and depends on the light in which we view things”
“Do not seek the because - in love there is no because, no reason, no explanation, no solutions.”
“The best things in life are silly”
“We have committed the Golden Rule to memory; let us now commit it to life.”
“I want a big career, a big man, and a big life. You have to think big - that's the only way to get it... I just couldn't stand being anonymous.”
“The very least you can do in your life is to figure out what you hope for. And the most you can do is live inside that hope.”
“Thy fate is the common fate of all; Into each life some rain must fall.”
“Life isn't like a book. Life isn't logical or sensible or orderly. Life is a mess most of the time. And theology must be lived in the midst of that mess.”
“Every choice moves us closer to or farther away from something. Where are your choices taking your life? What do your behaviors demonstrate that you are saying yes or no to in life?”
“As soon as there is life, there is danger”
“There must be several young women who would render the Christian life intensely difficult to him if only you could persuade him to marry one of them.”
“The doors we open and close each day decide the lives we live.”
“If you would not be forgotton as soon as you are dead and rotten, Either write something worth reading or do something worth writing.”
“You yourself, as much as anybody in the entire universe, deserve your love and affection.”
“The purpose of life is a life of purpose.”
“There are many things in life that will catch your eye, but only a few will catch your heart...pursue those.”
“I feel nothing but the accursed happiness I have dreaded all my life long: the happiness that comes as life goes, the happiness of yielding and dreaming instead of resisting and doing, the sweetness of the fruit that is going rotten.”
“Life is the art of being well deceived; and in order that the deception may succeed it must be habitual and uninterrupted”
“If it is an extraordinary blindness to live without investigating what we are, it is a terrible one to live an evil life, while believing in God”
“When I hear somebody sigh, "Life is hard," I am always tempted to ask, "Compared to what?"”
“I have learned that by focusing on the life I want to live, it happens naturally.”
“I think we all wish we could erase some dark times in our lives. But all of life's experiences, bad and good, make you who you are. Erasing any of life's experiences would be a great mistake.”
“Life is full of choices, if you have the guts to go for it. That's why I get immediately bored with anyone's complaining about how boring their life is, or how bad their town is. Fucking leave and go somewhere else. Or don't.”
“Seventy percent of success in life is showing up.”
“Everything is changeable, everything appears and disappears; there is no blissful peace until one passes beyond the agony of life and death.”
“The most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen or even touched, they must be felt with the heart”
“Did you ever think about life as a metaphor for television?”
“The most happy man is he who knows how to bring into relation the end and beginning of his life.”
“Writing is making sense of life. You work your whole life and perhaps you've made sense of one small area.”
“Life is divided into the horrible and the miserable.”
“One way to get the most out of life is to look upon it as an adventure”
“When I can look life in the eyes, grown calm and very coldly wise, life will have given me the truth, and taken in exchange - my youth.”
“Any person who selects a goal in life which can be fully achieved, has already defined his own limitations”
“Our choices in life are made according to our sense of our own worth”
“Life is not significant details, illuminated by a flash, fixed forever. Photographs are.”
“Death, so called, is a thing which makes men weep: and yet a third of Life is passed in sleep”
“Life is not fair; get used to it.”
“While we are postponing, life speeds by.”
“Children are the anchors that hold a mother to life”
“Life lived for tomorrow will always be just a day away from being realized.”
“Nobody dies a virgin...
Life fucks us all.”
“If you live to be a hundred, I want to live to be a hundred minus one day so I never have to live without you.”
“Since the things we do determine the character of life, no blessed person can become unhappy. For he will never do those things which are hateful and petty.”
“Our life is made by the death of others.”
“Tell me, what is it you plan to do
with your one wild and precious life?”
“What we call the secret of happiness is no more a secret than our willingness to choose life.”
“It's time to open your eyes, and notice.You are almost there, DON'T let YOUR pain and YOUR struggles, blur your vision. Keep that dream alive, for it is yours and only you can achieve it and bring it to life.”
“Do it now! can affect every phase of your life. It can help you do the things you should do but don't feel like doing. It can keep you from procrastinating when an unpleasant duty faces you. But it can also help you do those things that you want to do. It helps you seize those precious moments that, if lost, may never be retrieved.”
“Yeah we all shine on, like the moon, and the stars, and the sun.”
“Don't take life seriously because you can't come out of it alive.”
“The quality, not the longevity, of one's life is what is important.”
“Acting is just a way of making a living, the family is life”
“One of the secrets of a long and fruitful life is to forgive everybody everything before you go to bed”
“Whether life is worth living depends on whether there is love in life.”
“Life is like a ten speed bicycle. Most of us have gears we never use.”
“I hope you have not been leading a double life, pretending to be wicked and being good all the time. That would be hypocrisy.”
“Even if your life is at its worst you must SMILE! You never know when you're going to meet the one who takes your breath away!”
“Your capacity to keep your vow will depend on the purity of your life”
“Let the refining and improving of your own life keep you so busy that you have little time to criticize others.”
“Nobody gets to live life backward. Look ahead, that is where your future lies.”
“Don't marry the person you think you can live with; marry only the individual you think you can't live without.”
“To be ignorant of what happened before you were born is to be ever a child. For what is man's lifetime unless the memory of past events is woven with those of earlier times?”
“Expecting life to treat you well because you are a good person is like expecting an angry bull not to charge because you are a vegetarian.”
“The true meaning of life is to plant trees, under whose shade you do not expect to sit.”
“Life, like all other games, becomes fun when one realizes that it's just a game”
“My mother wanted us to understand that the tragedies of your life one day have the potential to be comic stories the next.”
“The most valuable things in life are not measured in monetary terms. The really important things are not houses and lands, stocks and bonds, automobiles and real state, but friendships, trust, confidence, empathy, mercy, love and faith.”
“To dance is to be in tune with the steps of life.”
“Reality continues to ruin my life.”
“If you think back and replay your year, if it doesn't bring you tears either of joy or sadness, consider it wasted.”
“You leave old habits behind by starting out with the thought, 'I release the need for this in my life'.”
“Imagine all the people living life in peace. You may say I'm a dreamer, but I'm not the only one. I hope someday you'll join us, and the world will be as one.”
“Why did I write? Because I found life unsatisfactory”
“Life is something like a trumpet. If you don't put anything in, you won't get anything out.”
“It is not true that we have only one life to live; if we can read, we can live as many more lives and as many kinds of lives as we wish.”
“Whenever you make a mistake or get knocked down by life, don't look back at it too long. Mistakes are life's way of teaching you. Your capacity for occasional blunders is inseparable from your capacity to reach your goals. No one wins them all, and your failures, when they happen, are just part of your growth. Shake off your blunders. How will you know your limits without an occasional failure? Never quit. Your turn will come.”
“A single event can awaken within us a stranger totally unknown to us. To live is to be slowly born.”
“Hope deferred makes the heart sick, but when dreams come true, there is life and joy. Proverbs 13:12 (NLT)”
“The aim of life is self-development. To realize one's nature perfectly - that is what each of us is here for.”
“If you want to accomplish the goals of your life, you have to begin with the spirit.”
“In married life three is company and two none.”
“Paradoxically though it may seem, it is none the less true that life imitates art far more than art imitates life”
“It is better to create than to learn! Creating is the essence of life.”
“If it wasn't for pick-pockets I'd have no sex life at all.”
“The end of life is to be like God, and the soul following God will be like Him.”
“You are about to begin the hero's journey. Travel well on the quest. A life of More is your birthright. Know the vast resource that reside in you and are provided for you in the world. You have raised the battle cry of There Must Be More Than This.”
“Don't waste life in doubts and fears; spend yourself on the work before you, well assured that the right performance of this hour's duties will be the best preparation for the hours and ages that will follow it.”
“Justice in the life and conduct of the State is possible only as first it resides in the hearts and souls of the citizens”
“At the end of your life, you will never regret not having passed one more test, not winning one more verdict or not closing one more deal. You will regret time not spent with a husband, a friend, a child, or a parent.”
“Find something that you're really interested in doing in your life. Pursue it, set goals, and commit yourself to excellence. Do the best you can.”
“I knew there was a way out. I knew there was another kind of life because I had read about it. I knew there were other places, and there was another way of being.”
“What allows us, as human beings, to psychologically survive life on earth, with all of its pain, drama, and challenges, is a sense of purpose and meaning”
“Life is a quest and love a quarrel ...”
“Difficult times always create opportunities for you to experience more love in your life.”
“I'm not afraid of death. It's the stake one puts up in order to play the game of life.”
“Nobody, as long as he moves about among the chaotic currents of life, is without trouble.”
“Life is like art. You have to work hard to keep it simple and still have meaning.”
“The great things in life are what they seem to be. And for that reason, strange as it may sound to you, often are very difficult to interpret (understand). Great passion are for the great of souls. Great events can only be seen by people who are on a level with them. We think we can have our visions for nothing. We cannot. Even the finest and most self-sacrificing visions have to paid for. Strangely enough, that is what makes them fine.”
“Sleep, that deplorable curtailment of the joy of life.”
“Life is like a grapefruit. Well, it's sort of orangy-yellow and dimpled on the outside, wet and squidgy in the middle. It's got pips inside, too. Oh, and some people have a half a one for breakfast.”
“Each man is questioned by life; and he can only answer to life by answering for his own life; to life he can only respond by being responsible.”
“Life is either a daring adventure or nothing. Security is mostly a superstition. It does not exist in nature.”
“Religions die when they are proved to be true. Science is the record of dead religions.”
“Seeking but not finding the house builder I travelled through life after life. How painful is repeated birth! House-builders, you have now been seen. You will not build the house again”
“What we are today comes from our thoughts of yesterday, and our present thoughts build our life of tomorrow: Our life is the creation of our mind.”
“City life is millions of people being lonesome together.”
“Ignorant people see life as either existence or non-existence, but wise men see it beyond both existence and non-existence to something that transcends them both; this is an observation of the Middle Way.”
“My life is an indivisible whole, and all my activities run into one another and they have their rise in my insatiable love of mankind”
“All the breaks you need in life wait within your imagination, Imagination is the workshop of your mind, capable of turning mind energy into accomplishment and wealth.”
“It takes a lot of experience of life to see why some relationships last and others do not. But we do not have to wait for a crisis to get an idea of the future of a particular relationship. Our behavior in little every incidents tells us a great deal.”
“Put your talent into your work, but your genius into your life”
“When we do the best that we can, we never know what miracle is wrought in our life, or in the life of another.”
“Life is far too important a thing ever to talk seriously about.”
“When we least expect it, life sets us a challenge to test our courage and willingness to change; at such a moment, there is no point in pretending that nothing has happened or in saying that we are not ready. The challenge will not wait. Life does not look back. A week is more than enough time for us to decide whether or not to accept our destiny.”
“Life is like a box of chocolates... you never know what you're gonna get.”
“Life is not what it's supposed to be. Its what it is. The way you cope with it is what makes the difference.”
“The soul is born old but grows young. That is the comedy of life.”
“Life is a succession of crises and moments when we have to rediscover who we are and what we really want.”
“I've never known a musician who regretted being one. Whatever deceptions life may have in store for you, music itself is not going to let you down.”
“Your daily life is your temple and your religion. When you enter into it take with you your all.”
“Life is a voyage.”
“Sometimes life seems like a dream, especially when I look down and see that I forgot to put on my pants”
“Don't be too timid and squeamish about your actions. All life is an experiment.”
“You must trust and believe in people or life becomes impossible.”
“Consideration for others is the basic of a good life, a good society.”
“There is a very fine line between loving life and being greedy for it.”
“Life is indeed darkness save when there is urge, and all urge is blind save when there is knowledge, and all knowledge is vain save when there is work, and all work is empty save when there is love.”
“The world has grown suspicious of anything that looks like a happily married life.”
“No matter how qualified or deserving we are, we will never reach a better life until we can imagine it for ourselves and allow ourselves to have it.”
“Apply yourself both now and in the next life. Without effort, you cannot be prosperous. Though the land be good, You cannot have an abundant crop without cultivation.”
“For life and death are one, even as the river and the sea are one”
“The sole meaning of life is to serve humanity.”
“All life is an experiment.”
“During the first period of a man's life the greatest danger is not to take the risk.”
“It is a bit embarrassing to have been concerned with the human problem all one's life and find at the end that one has no more to offer by way of advice than 'try to be a little kinder”
“What is my life if I am no longer useful to others.”
“There is nothing enduring in life for a woman except what she builds in a man's heart”
“Yes, you can lose somebody overnight, yes, your whole life can be turned upside down. Life is short. It can come and go like a feather in the wind.”
“Life, like a child, laughs, shaking its rattle of death as it runs.”
“Life is not living, but being in health.”
“The more sand that has escaped from the hourglass of our life, the clearer we should see through it.”
“The greatest pleasure in life is doing what people say you cannot do.”
“I'm not one of those complicated, mixed-up cats. I'm not looking for the secret to life.... I just go on from day to day, taking what comes.”
“Here's to a long life, and a merry one; a quick death, and an easy one; a pretty girl, and an honest one; a cold beer - and another one!”
“Sound character provides the power with which a person may ride the emergencies of life instead of being overwhelmed by them. Failure is... the highway to success.”
“Why love if losing hurts so much? I have no answers anymore; only the life I have lived. The pain now is part of the happiness then.”
“" Life can be like a roller coaster...
And just when you think you've had enough,
and your ready to get off the ride and take the calm, easy merry-go round...
You change your mind, throw you hands in the air 
and ride the roller coaster all over again.
That's exhilaration...that's living a bit on the edge...that's being ALIVE."
--- Copyright © 1999 Stacey Charter”
“Good health and good sense are two of life's greatest blessings.”
“Friendship's the wine of life: but friendship new... is neither strong nor pure.”
“Your life is the fruit of your own doing. You have no one to blame but yourself.”
“The true object of all human life is play.”
“No man is beaten until his hope is annihilated, his confidence gone. As long as a man faces life hopefully, confidently, triumphantly, he is not a failure; he is not beaten until he turns his back on life.”
“Here is the first passionate love-letter I have ever written in my life. Strange, that my first passionate love-letter should have been addressed to a dead girl. Can they feel, I wonder, those white silent people we call the dead?”
“There's no reality except the one contained within us. That's why so many people live an unreal life. They take images outside them for reality and never allow the world within them to assert itself.”
“Life well spent is long.”
“Dancing is the loftiest, the most moving, the most beautiful of the arts, because it is no mere translation or abstraction from life; it is life itself.”
“Maybe you don't like your job, maybe you didn't get enough sleep, well nobody likes their job, nobody got enough sleep. Maybe you just had the worst day of your life, but you know, there's no escape, there's no excuse, so just suck up and be nice.”
“Live your daily life in a way that you never lose yourself. When you are carried away with your worries, fears, cravings, anger, and desire, you run away from yourself and you lose yourself. The practice is always to go back to oneself.”
“Who among us hasn't envied a cat's ability to ignore the cares of daily life and to relax completely?”
“Friendship with oneself is all important because without it one cannot be friends with anybody else in the world.”
“What is called genius is the abundance of life and health.”
“The most decisive actions of our life -- I mean those that are most likely to decide the whole course of our future -- are, more often than not, unconsidered.”
“We've got to learn hard things in our lifetime, but it's love that gives you the strength. It's being nice to people and having a lot of fun and laughing harder than anything, hopefully every single day of your life.”
“You learn about equality in history and civics, but you find out life is not really like that.”
“I certainly don't regret my experiences because without them, I couldn't imagine who or where I would be today. Life is an amazing gift to those who have overcome great obstacles, and attitude is everything!”
“Please, dear God, don't let me fuck up.”
“I would like to spend the whole of my life traveling, if I could anywhere borrow another life to spend at home”
“Pretending that we live doesn't make us alive.”
“Whatever we put our attention on will grow stronger in our life.”
“No one is happy all his life long.”
“Sports is the toy department of human life.”
“I just do whatever it is that I believe I should do, regardless of the risks to my life.”
“You wait for fate to bring about the changes in life which you should be bringing about by yourself”
“Life forms illogical patterns. It is haphazard and full of beauties which I try to catch as they fly by, for who knows whether any of them will ever return?”
“Life... It tends to respond to our outlook, to shape itself to meet our expectations.”
“Life is a series of collisions with the future; it is not the sum of what we have been, but what we yearn to be.”
“Use your precious moments to live life fully every single second of every single day.”
“If you can't get rid of the skeleton in your closet, you'd best teach it to dance.”
“Life is never boring, but some people choose to be bored.”
“Friendship is the shadow of the evening, which increases with the setting sun of life”
“Intellectual property has the shelf life of a banana.”
“I really don't think life is about the I-could-have-beens. Life is only about the I-tried-to-do. I don't mind the failure but I can't imagine that I'd forgive myself if I didn't try.”
“The life of every man is a diary in which he means to write one story, and writes another; and his humblest hour is when he compares the volume as it is with what he vowed to make it”
“If my life is of no value to my friends, then it is of no value to me.”
“You must take action now that will move you towards your goals. Develop a sense of urgency in your life.”
“Some people think football is a matter of life and death. I assure you, it's much more serious than that.”
“Embrace nothing: 
If you meet the Buddha, kill the Buddha. 
If you meet your father, kill your father. 
Only live your life as it is, 
Not bound to anything.”
“Life is pain and the enjoyment of love is an anesthetic.”
“Life, Lady Stutfield, is simply a mauvais quart d'heure made up of exquisite moments.”
“One word frees us of all the weight and pain in life. That word is love.”
“Occasionally in life there are those moments of unutterable fulfillment which cannot be completely explained by those symbols called words. Their meanings can only be articulated by the inaudible language of the heart.”
“You cannot tailor-make the situations in life, but you can tailor-make the attitudes to fit those situations”
“Of all the things which wisdom provides to make life entirely happy, much the greatest is the possession of friendship”
“Every man's life ends the same way. It is only the details of how he lived and how he died that distinguish one man from another.”
“Remember if you marry for beauty, thou bindest thyself all thy life for that which perchance, will neither last nor please thee one year: and when thou hast it, it will be to thee of no price at all.”
“This is as true in everyday life as it is in battle: we are given one life and the decision is ours whether to wait for circumstances to make up our mind, or whether to act, and in acting, to live.”
“I don't worry about yesterday because it is already gone. I use the energy I have to survive for today because it is all I have. When I survive today I hope I can see tomorrow.”
“As we drive along this road called life, occasionally a gal will find herself a little lost. And when that happens, I guess she has to let go of the coulda, shoulda, woulda, buckle up and just keep going.”
“On the sands of life sorrow treads heavily, and leaves a print time cannot wash away.”
“There is hardly anyone whose sexual life, if it were broadcast, would not fill the world at large with surprise and horror.”
“Wealth is the ability to fully experience life.”
“Nobody can hurt me without my permission.”
“Take your life in your own hands, and what happens? A terrible thing: no one to blame.”
“If I were asked to give what I consider the single most useful bit of advice for all humanity it would be this: Expect trouble as an inevitable part of life and when it comes, hold you head high, look it squarely in eye and say, 'I will be bigger than you. You cannot defeat me.'”
“There are three constants in life... change, choice and principles.”
“There's only us. There's only this. Forget regrets or life is yours to miss. No other hope. No other way.
NO DAY BUT TODAY!”
“Be happy for this moment. This moment is your life.”
“The greatest day in your life and mine is when we take total responsibility for our attitudes. That's the day we truly grow up.”
“The greatest mistake you can make in life is to be continually fearing you will make one”
“A person experiences life as something separated from the rest - a kind of optical delusion of consciousness. Our task must be to free ourselves from this self-imposed prison, and through compassion, to find the reality of Oneness.”
“Strange as it may seem, my life is based on a true story”
“The true measure of life is not length, but honesty.”
“Everything has its beauty, but not everyone sees it”
“Hurried and worried until we're buried, and there's no curtain call, Lifes a very funny proposition after all”
“It is better to be a coward for a minute than dead for the rest of your life”
“There comes a time in every man's life, and I've had plenty of them.”
“Strange is our situation here upon earth. Each of us comes for a short visit, not knowing why, yet sometimes seeming to a divine purpose. From the standpoint of daily life, however, there is one thing we do know: That we are here for the sake of others...for the countless unknown souls with whose fate we are connected by a bond of sympathy. Many times a day, I realize how much my outer and inner life is built upon the labors of people, both living and dead, and how earnestly I must exert myself in order to give in return as much as I have received.”
“No life can be barren which hears the whisper of the wind in the branches, or the voice of the sea as it breaks upon the shore; and no soul can lack happiness looking up to the midnight stars.”
“When I started counting my blessings, my whole life turned around.”
“I've learned that you shouldn't go through life with a catcher's mitt on both hands; you need to be able to throw something back.”
“Life is like a box of crayons. Most people are the 8-color boxes, but what you're really looking for are the 64-color boxes with the sharpeners on the back. I fancy myself to be a 64-color box, though I've got a few missing. It's ok though, because I've got some more vibrant colors like periwinkle at my disposal. I have a bit of a problem though in that I can only meet the 8-color boxes. Does anyone else have that problem? I mean there are so many different colors of life, of feeling, of articulation.. so when I meet someone who's an 8-color type.. I'm like, "hey girl, magenta!" and she's like, "oh, you mean purple!" and she goes off on her purple thing, and I'm like, "no - I want magenta!"”
“When it comes to life and love, why do we believe our worst reviews?”
“Dressing is a way of life.”
“Women who set a low value on themselves make life hard for all women.”
“Prayer is as natural an expression of faith as breathing is of life”
“This secret spoke Life herself unto me: "Behold," said she, "I am that which must ever surpass itself."”
“Life is like topography, Hobbes. There are summits of happiness and success, flat stretches of boring routine, and valleys of frustration and failure.”
“Life is a flame that is always burning itself out, but it catches fire again every time a child is born”
“There are only two options regarding commitment. You're either in or you're out. There's no such thing as life in-between.”
“I may be drunk, Miss, but in the morning I will be sober and you will still be ugly.”
“A son is a son till he takes him a wife, a daughter is a daughter all of her life.”
“It's my fucking life and - you know what? - nobody invited you... so there's the door.”
“You were born with wings. Why prefer to crawl through life?”
“Those of us we have been true readers all our life fully realize the enormous extension of our being which we owe to authors”
“Life is nothing without friendship.”
“I have wandered all my life, and I have also traveled; the difference between the two being this, that we wander for distraction, but we travel for fulfillment”
“Faith is a living, daring confidence in God's grace, so sure and certain that a man could stake his life on it a thousand times.”
“Life is a gift. Open your present.”
“Be brave. Take risks. Nothing can substitute experience.”
“Life seems but a quick succession of busy nothings.”
“He who does not understand your silence will probably not understand your words.”
“Let us endeavor to live so that when we die even the undertaker will be sorry”
“Life and death are one thread, the same line viewed from different sides.”
“The great art of life is sensation, to feel that we exist, even in pain.”
“"Life is like a permanent limp dick, with an occassional blow job" [When told by Phil that life is like a permanent cloudy day, with an occassional sunshine]”
“Man is a goal seeking animal. His life only has meaning if he is reaching out and striving for his goals.”
“People are afraid of themselves, of their own reality; their feelings most of all. People talk about how great love is, but that's bullshit. Love hurts. Feelings are disturbing. People are taught that pain is evil and dangerous. How can they deal with love if they're afraid to feel? Pain is meant to wake us up. People try to hide their pain. But they're wrong. Pain is something to carry, like a radio. You feel your strength in the experience of pain. It's all in how you carry it. That's what matters. Pain is a feeling. Your feelings are a part of you. Your own reality. If you feel ashamed of them, and hide them, you're letting society destroy your reality. You should stand up for your right to feel your pain.”
“There are no extra pieces in the universe. Everyone is here because he or she has a place to fill, and every piece must fit itself into the big jigsaw puzzle.”
“Mondays are the potholes in the road of life.”
“There are two ways to slide easily through life: to believe everything or to doubt everything. Both ways save us from thinking.”
“For the happiest life, days should be rigorously planned, nights left open to chance.”
“When you play it too safe, you're taking the biggest risk of your life. Time is the only wealth we're given.”
“The way to know life is to love many things.”
“My life? It isn't easy to explain. It has not been the rip-roaring spectacular I fancied it would be, but neither have I burrowed with the gophers. I suppose it has most resembled the blue chip stock; fairly stable, more ups than downs, and gradually trending upward over time. A good buy, a lucky buy and I've learned that not everyone can say this about their lives. But do not be misled. I am nothing special; of this I am sure. I am a common man with common thoughts, and I've led a common life. There are no monuments dedicated to me, and my name will soon be forgotten, but I have loved someone with all my heart and soul, and to me, this has always been enough.”
“The Answer to the Great Question Of.....Life, the Universe and Everything.....(is) Forty-two.”
“Go to Heaven for the climate, Hell for the company.”
“The great tragedy of life is not that men perish, but that they cease to love.”
“I've never tried to block out the memories of the past, even though some are painful. I don't understand people who hide from their past. Everything you live through helps to make you the person you are now.”
“I had a dream my life would be 
So different from this hell I'm living
So different now from what it seemed
Now life has killed the dream I dreamed.”
“In order to please others, we loose our hold on our life’s purpose.”
“Our soulmate is the one who makes life come to life.”
“Life is hard; it's harder if you're stupid.”
“Singing is my life. It has always been my life. It will always be my life.”
“Gratitude unlocks the fullness of life. It turns what we have into enough, and more. It turns denial into acceptance, chaos to order, confusion to clarity. It can turn a meal into a feast, a house into a home, a stranger into a friend. Gratitude makes sense of our past, brings peace for today, and creates a vision for tomorrow.”
“In order to succeed, people need a sense of self-efficacy, struggle together with resilience to meet the inevitable obstacles and inequities of life.”
“I, with a deeper instinct, choose a man who compels my strength, who makes enormous demands on me, who does not doubt my courage or my toughness, who does not believe me naive or innocent, who has the courage to treat me like a woman.”
“Life is hard for insects. And don't think mice are having any fun either.”
“Expect to have hope rekindled. Expect your prayers to be answered in wondrous ways. The dry seasons in life do not last. The spring rains will come again.”
“My whole life, I've wanted to feel comfortable in my skin. It's the most liberating thing in the world.”
“Life is made up of small pleasures. Happiness is made up of those tiny successes. The big ones come too infrequently. And if you don't collect all these tiny successes, the big ones don't really mean anything.”
“There are worse things in life than death. Have you ever spent an evening with an insurance salesman?”
“I slept and dreamt that life was joy. I awoke and saw that life was service. I acted and behold, service was joy.”
“I know of no better life purpose than to perish in attempting the great and the impossible. . . .”
“Do the best you can, and don't take life too serious.”
“All of life is a dispute over taste and tasting.”
“I thought my life would seem more interesting with a musical score and a laugh track.”
“It takes no more time to see the good side of life than it takes to see the bad”
“I never made a mistake in my life. I thought I did once, but I was wrong.”
“Life is what we make it, always has been, always will be.”
“The paradox of courage is that a man must be a little careless of his life even in order to keep it.”
“Life doesn't imitate art, it imitates bad television.”
“Never regret. If it's good, it's wonderful. If it's bad, it's experience.”
“I try to live what I consider a "poetic existence." That means I take responsibility for the air I breathe and the space I take up. I try to be immediate, to be totally present for all my work.”
“Find ecstasy in life; the mere sense of living is joy enough.”
“Half our life is spent trying to find something to do with the time we have rushed through life trying to save”
“Everyone has his own specific vocation or mission in life; everyone must carry out a concrete assignment that demands fulfillment. Therein he cannot be replaced, nor can his life be repeated, thus, everyone's task is unique as his specific opportunity.”
“I have been black and blue in some spot, somewhere, almost all my life from too intimate contacts with my own furniture.”
“Do not look where you fell but where you slipped”
“Life's like a play; it's not the length but the excellence of the acting that matters”
“Every happening, great and small, is a parable whereby God speaks to us, and the art of life is to get the message.”
“First your parents, they give you your life, but then they try to give you their life”
“Life is uncharted territory. It reveals its story one moment at a time.”
“To believe in yourself and to follow your dreams, to have goals in life and a drive to succeed, and to surround yourself with the things and the people that make you happy - this is success!”
“If you are going through hell, keep going.”
“Let a man avoid evil deeds as a man who loves life avoids poison”
“Life is pretty simple: You do some stuff. Most fails. Some works. You do more of what works. If it works big, others quickly copy it. Then you do something else. The trick is the doing something else.”
“Life doesn't require that we be the best, only that we try our best.”
“It is often said that before you die your life passes before your eyes. It is in fact true. It's called living.”
“Keeping away from all evil deeds, cultivation of life by doing good deeds and purification of mind from mental impurities.”
“Life is a series of sales situations, and the answer is no if you don't ask.”
“I love hearts. They are symbols for life, love and humanity.”
“Without just one nest
A bird can call the world home
Life is your career”
“Education begins with life.”
“The cost of a thing is the amount of what I will call life which is required to be exchanged for it, immediately or in the long run”
“I expect to pass through life but once. If therefore, there be any kindness I can show, or any good thing I can do to any fellow being, let me do it now, and not defer or neglect it, as I shall not pass this way again.”
“It concerns us to know the purposes we seek in life, for then, like archers aiming at a definite mark, we shall be more likely to attain what we want.”
“If we really love ourselves, everything in our life works.”
“Life can be found only in the present moment. The past is gone, the future is not yet here, and if we do not go back to ourselves in the present moment, we cannot be in touch with life.”
“I have measured out my life with coffee spoons.”
“The miracle is not to walk on water. The miracle is to walk on the green earth, dwelling deeply in the present moment and feeling truly alive.”
“Without music life would be a mistake.”
“Most of the luxuries and many of the so-called comforts of life, are not only not indispensable, but positive hindrances to the elevation of mankind”
“I want to be thoroughly used up when I die, for the harder I work the more I live. I rejoice in life for its own sake.”
“A man cannot be said to succeed in this life who does not satisfy one friend.”
“So long as the memory of certain beloved friends lives in my heart, I shall say that life is good.”
“Imagination is everything. It is the preview of life's coming attractions.”
“Clouds come floating into my life, no longer to carry rain or usher storm, but to add color to my sunset sky.”
“It's not so much that we're afraid of change or so in love with the old ways, but it's that place in between that we fear . . . . It's like being between trapezes. It's Linus when his blanket is in the dryer. There's nothing to hold on to.”
“Your life changes the moment you make a new, congruent, and committed decision.”
“Ideas can be life-changing. Sometimes all you need to open the door is just one more good idea.”
“Our life is what our thoughts make it.”
“Far and away the best prize that life offers is the chance to work hard at work worth doing.”
“If we let things terrify us, life will not be worth living.”
“Let your life lightly dance on the edges of Time like dew on the tip of a leaf.”
“Deserves it! I daresay he does. Many that live deserve death. And some that die deserve life. Can you give it to them? Then do not be too eager to deal out death in judgement. For even the very wise cannot see all ends. I have not much hope that Gollum can be cured before he dies, but there is a chance of it. And he is bound up with the fate of the Ring. My heart tells me that he has some part to play yet, for good or ill, before the end; and when that comes, the pity of Bilbo may rule the fate of many - yours not least.”
“I refuse to live My life under the shadows of doubts and fears! For I know who I am and I know where I'm going!....”
“Only so much do I know, as I have lived”
“Anger repressed can poison a relationship as surely as the cruelest words”
“In war as in life, it is often necessary when some cherished scheme has failed, to take up the best alternative open, and if so, it is folly not to work for it with all your might.”
“You come into the world with nothing, and the purpose of your life is to make something out of nothing”
“My interest is in the future because I am going to spend the rest of my life there”
“Smile, it is the key that fits the lock of everybody's heart.”
“All trials are trials for one's life, just as all sentences are sentences of death.”
“Try and fail, but don't fail to try.”
“Men come together in cities in order to live: they remain together in order to live the good life”
“While we have the gift of life, it seems to me the only tragedy is to allow part of us to die -- whether it is our spirit, our creativity or our glorious uniqueness”
“Joy can be real only if people look upon their life as a service, and have a definite object in life outside themselves and their personal happiness”
“As you simplify your life, the laws of the universe will be simpler; solitude will not be solitude, poverty will not be poverty, nor weakness weakness.”
“Life is really simple, but we insist on making it complicated.”
“Most of the change we think we see in life is due to truths being in and out of favor”
“If there is one thing in life that I have learned about life it is... it goes on.”
“I don't think inside the box, I don't think outside the box, I don't even know where the box is!”
“You are wholly complete and your success in life will be in direct proportion to your ability to accept this truth about you.”
“Do you want me to tell you something really subversive? Love is everything it's cracked up to be. That's why people are so cynical about it. It really is worth fighting for, being brave for, risking everything for. And the trouble is, if you don't risk anything, you risk even more.”
“The tragedy of life doesn't lie in not reaching your goal. The tragedy lies in having no goal to reach. It isn't a calamity to die with dreams unfilled, but it is a calamity not to dream. It is not disgrace to reach the stars, but it is a disgrace to”
“A vocabulary of truth and simplicity will be of service throughout your life”
“To live for some future goal is shallow. It's the sides of the mountain that sustain life, not the top.”
“But friendship is precious, not only in shade, but in the sunshine of life; and thanks to a benevolent arrangement of things, the greater part of life is sunshine”
“Lady Nancy Astor: Winston, if you were my husband, I'd poison your tea.
Churchill: Nancy, if I were your husband, I'd drink it.”
“Life is not a matter of holding good cards, but of playing a poor hand well.”
“Be as a bird perched on a frail branch that she feels bending beneath her, still she sings away all the same, knowing she has wings.”
“The life of every man is a diary in which he means to write one story, and writes another.”
“Human life itself may be almost pure chaos, but the work of the artist is to take these handfuls of confusion and disparate things, things that seem to be irreconcilable, and put them together in a frame to give them some kind of shape and meaning.”
“We are always getting ready to live, but never living”
“Rest not. Life is sweeping by; go and dare before you die. Something mighty and sublime, leave behind to conquer time.”
“The essence of life is finding something you really love and then making the daily experience worthwhile.”
“People of uncommon abilities generally fall into eccentricities when their sphere of life is not adequate to their abilities.”
“It really changed my life. When we split up, something changed, permanently, in me. My heart sort of broke that day, and it will never be the same.”
“When life life does not find a singer to sing her heart, she produces a philosopher to speak her mind”
“Life moves on, whether we act as cowards or heroes. Life has no other discipline to impose, if we would but realize it, than to accept life unquestioningly. Everything we shut our eyes to, everything we run away from, everything we deny, denigrate or despise, serves to defeat us in the end. What seems nasty, painful, evil, can become a source of beauty, joy, and strength, if faced with an open mind. Every moment is a golden one for him who has the vision to recognize it as such.”
“The pleasure of life is according to the man who lives it, and not according to the work or the place”
“Breath is the bridge which connects life to consciousness, which unites your body to your thoughts.”
“The theater is so endlessly fascinating because it's so accidental. It's so much like life.”
“Three things are needed for a good life, good friends, good food, and good song.”
“What is essential in a work of art is that it should rise far above the realm of personal life and speak to the spirit and heart of the poet as man to the spirit and heart of mankind”
“Life is a festival only to the wise.”
“No trumpets sound when the important decisions of our life are made. Destiny is made known silently.”
“If you would be a real seeker after truth, it is necessary that at least once in your life you doubt, as far as possible, all things.”
“A dream is your creative vision for your life in the future. You must break out of your current comfort zone and become comfortable with the unfamiliar and the unknown.”
“Love is the river of life in the world.”
“Everything I did in my life that was worthwhile I caught hell for.”
“The more intensely we feel about an idea or a goal, the more assuredly the idea, buried deep in our subconscious, will direct us along the path to its fulfillment.”
“Life is a series of experiences, each one of which makes us bigger, even though sometimes it is hard to realize this”
“The man who goes alone can start today; but he who travels with another must wait till that other is ready.”
“We don't stop playing because we grow old; we grow old because we stop playing.”
“Revolution is a serious thing, the most serious thing about a revolutionary's life. When one commits oneself to the struggle, it must be for a lifetime.”
“Deficiency motivation doesn't work. It will lead to a life-long pursuit of try to fix me. Learn to appreciate what you have and where and who you are.”
“The state of your life is nothing more than a reflection of your state of mind.”
“Life has its own hidden forces which you can only discover by living.”
“Believe that life is worth living, and your belief will help create the fact”
“I invented my life by taking for granted that everything I did not like would have an opposite, which I would like.”
“Life has a certain flavor for those who have fought and risked all that the sheltered and protected can never experience.”
“I also remember the moment my life changed, the moment I finally said, ''I've had it! I know I'm much more than I'm demonstrating mentally, emotionally, and physically in my life'.' I made a decision in that moment which was to alter my life forever. I decided to change virtually every aspect of my life. I decided I would never again settle for less than I can be.”
““One of the best confidence builder is experience.””
“I think of life itself now as a wonderful play that I've written for myself, and so my purpose is to have the utmost fun playing my part.”
“Do not be too timid and squeamish about your actions. All life is an experience.”
“I used to worry about what life was for - now being alive seems sufficient reason.”
“Friendship, love, health, energy, enthusiasm, and joy are the things that make life worth living and exploring.”
“Whatever you want in life, other people are going to want it too. Believe in yourself enough to accept the idea that you have an equal right to it.”
“Keep your dreams alive. Understand to achieve anything requires faith and belief in yourself, vision, hard work, determination, and dedication. Remember all things are possible for those who believe.”
“The gaurdian angels of life sometimes fly so high as to be beyond our sight, but they are always looking down upon us.”
“There are stars who's light only reaches the earth long after they have fallen appart. There are people who's remembrance gives light in this world, long after they have passed away. This light shines in our darkest nights on the road we must follow.”
“Death ends a life, not a relationship.”
“If I have learned one thing in this life, it is that God will not tie my shoes without me”
“To believe in something, and not to live it, is dishonest.”
“Water is life's mater and matrix, mother and medium. There is no life without water.”
“We live in a fantasy world, a world of illusion. The great task in life is to find reality.”
“You are educated. Your certification is in your degree. You may think of it as the ticket to the good life. Let me ask you to think of an alternative. Think of it as your ticket to change the world.”
“The turning point in the process of growing up is when you discover the core of strength within you that survives all hurt.”
“And by the way, everything in life is writable about if you have the outgoing guts to do it, and the imagination to improvise. The worst enemy to creativity is self-doubt.”
“The aim, if reached or not, makes great the life: Try to be Shakespeare, leave the rest to fate!”
“Rivers know this: there is no hurry. We shall get there some day.”
“Life is a perpetual instruction in cause and effect.”
“That is what learning is. You suddenly understand something you've understood all your life, but in a new way.”
“A woman has got to love a bad man once or twice in her life, to be thankful for a good one”
“I never did a day's work in my life. It was all fun.”
“Life is intrinsically, well, boring and dangerous at the same time. At any given moment the floor may open up. Of course, it almost never does; that's what makes it so boring.”
“Take a second out to think about this: in your life you search and search for the right person for you. Every time you break up with someone you get one step closer to that person. You should look at moving on as getting closer to meeting the one.”
“In poverty and other misfortunes of life, true friends are a sure refuge. The young they keep out of mischief; to the old they are a comfort and aid in their weakness, and those in the prime of life they incite to noble deeds.”
“Art is long, life short, judgment difficult, opportunity transient.”
“Life isn't about getting what you want, it's about being grateful for what you have.”
“My life has a superb cast but I can't figure out the plot.”
“For neither life nor nature cares if justice is ever done or not.”
“A pessimist sees the difficulty in every opportunity; an optimist sees the opportunity in every difficulty.”
“A life is either all spiritual or not spiritual at all. No man can serve two masters. Your life is shaped by the end you live for. You are made in the image of what you desire.”
“The notion of looking on at life has always been hateful to me. What am I if I am not a participant? In order to be, I must participate.”
“This is the ultimate end of man, to find the One which is in him; which is his truth, which is his soul; the key with which he opens the gate of the spiritual life, the heavenly kingdom.”
“Our life is composed greatly from dreams, from the unconscious, and they must be brought into connection with action. They must be woven together.”
“Ultimately, man should not ask what the meaning of his life is, but rather he must recognize that it [is] he who is asked.”
“Life in abundance comes only through great love”
“By having a reverence for life, we enter into a spiritual relation with the world By practicing reverence for life we become good, deep, and alive.”
“There is no value in life except what you choose to place upon it and no happiness in any place except what you bring to it yourself.”
“Nothing will benefit human health and increase the chances for survival of life on Earth as much as the evolution to a vegetarian diet.”
“I have spent many years of my life in opposition, and I rather like the role.”
“Life must be lived and curiosity kept alive. One must never, for whatever reason, turn his back on life.”
“Who loves not wine, women and song, Remains a fool his whole life long”
“when all this started, I asked myself, 'Am I going to withdraw from the world, like most people do, or am I going to live?' I decided I am going to live-or at least try to live-the way I want, with dignity, with courage, with humor, with composure.”
“When you can be your own best audience and when your applause is the best applause you know of, you’re in good shape.”
“Nobel prize money is a life-belt thrown to a swimmer who has already reached the shore in safety”
“My life has been full of terrible misfortunes most of which never happened.”
“Vocation is the spine of life.”
“A man builds a fine house; and now he has a master, and a task for life: he is to furnish, watch, show it, and keep it in repair, the rest of his days”
“Life sucks, but in a beautiful kind of way.”
“Isn't it the moment of most profound doubt that gives birth to new certainties? Perhaps hopelessness is the very soil that nourishes human hope; perhaps one could never find sense in life without first experiencing its absurdity...”
“Life becomes harder for us when we live for others, but it also becomes richer and happier.”
“Hatred is toxic waste in the river of life.”
“Without a measureless and perpetual uncertainty, the drama of human life would be destroyed”
“A confession has to be part of your new life.”
“It's funny how most people love the dead, once you're dead you're made for life.”
“Succeeding is not really a life experience that does that much good. Failing is a much more sobering and enlightening experience.”
“I've got a peculiar weakness for criminals and artists-neither takes life as it is. Any tragic story has to be in conflict with things as they are.”
“Sorrows cannot all be explained away in a life truly lived, grief and loss accumulate like possessions.”
“The secret of life is honesty and fair dealing. If you can fake that, you've got it made.”
“Happiness depends more on how life strikes you than on what happens.”
“Tsze-Kung asked, "Is there one word which may serve as a rule of practice for all one's life?" The Master said, "Is not Reciprocity such a word? What you do not want done to yourself, do not do to others”
“I believe that a simple and unassuming manner of life is best for everyone, best both for the body and the mind.”
“If you stop struggling, then you stop life.”
“When one realizes that his life is worthless he either commits suicide or travels.”
“Every moment and every event of every man's life on earth plants something in his soul.”
“There is something feeble and a little contemptible about a man who cannot face the perils of life without the help of comfortable myths”
“To be idle is a short road to death and to be diligent is a way of life; foolish people are idle, wise people are diligent.”
“It is surprising, in the welter of questions that one gets at (languor), how few actually relate to the performance of the company, or the decisions taken by the board in particular areas.”
“Life is accepting what is and working from that.”
“In quiet moments when you think about it, you recognize what is critically important in life and what isn't. Be wise and don't let good things crowd out those that are essential.”
“When I consider the short duration of my life, swallowed up in the eternity before and after, the little space I fill, and even can see, engulfed in the infinite immensity of space of which I am ignorant, and which knows me not, I am frightened, and am astonished at being here rather than there, why now rather than then?”
“Life in Lubbock, Texas, taught me two things: One is that God loves you and you're going to burn in hell. The other is that sex is the most awful, filthy thing on earth and you should save it for someone you love.”
“Confront the dark parts of yourself, and work to banish them with illumination and forgiveness. Your willingness to wrestle with your demons will cause your angels to sing. Use the pain as fuel, as a reminder of your strength.”
“Once you bring life into the world, you must protect it. We must protect it by changing the world.”
“Life may have no meaning. Or even worse, it may have a meaning of which I disapprove.”
“When things go wrong, you'll find they usually go on getting worse for some time; but when things once start going right they often go on getting better and better.”
“Golf is like life in a lot of ways - All the biggest wounds are self-inflicted”
“All that you accomplish or fail to accomplish with your life is the direct result of your thoughts.”
“For death begins with life's first breath And life begins at touch of death”
“If you wish to achieve worthwhile things in your personal and career life, you must become a worthwhile person in your own self-development.”
“The art of life is to live in the present moment, and to make that moment as perfect as we can by the realization that we are the instruments and expression of God Himself.”
“Error is just as important a condition of life as truth”
“It is always the simple things that change our lives. And these things never happen when you are looking for them to happen. Life will reveal answers at the pace life wishes to do so. You feel like running, but life is on a stroll. This is how God does things.”
“I have accepted fear as a part of life - specifically the fear of change... I have gone ahead despite the pounding in the heart that says: turn back.”
“What hunger is in relation to food, zest is in relation to life”
“If you have love in your life, it can make up for a great many things that are missing. If you don't have love in your life, no matter what else there is, it's not enough.”
“If you can't control your peanut butter, you can't expect to control your life.”
“The more a man can forget, the greater the number of metamorphoses which his life can undergo, the more he can remember the more divine his life becomes.”
“Let go over a cliff, die completely, and then come back to life - after that you cannot be deceived”
“It is the sweet, simple things of life which are the real ones after all.”
“When you love people and have the desire to make a profound, positive impact
upon the world, then will you have accomplished the meaning to live.”
“Uncertainty and expectation are the joys of life. Security is an insipid thing.”
“You can shed tears that she is gone, 
or you can smile because she has lived.
You can close your eyes and pray that she'll come back,
or you can open your eyes and see all she's left.
Your heart can be empty because you can't see her,
or you can be full of the love you shared.
You can turn your back on tomorrow and live yesterday, 
or you can be happy for tomorrow because of yesterday.
You can remember her only that she is gone,
or you can cherish her memory and let it live on.
You can cry and close your mind, 
be empty and turn your back.
Or you can do what she'd want:
smile, open your eyes, love and go on.”
“The happy life is thought to be one of excellence; now an excellent life requires exertion, and does not consist in amusement.”
“Life began with waking up and loving my mother's face.”
“The meaning of life is not to be discovered only after death in some hidden, mysterious realm; on the contrary, it can be found by eating the succulent fruit of the Tree of Life and by living in the here and now as fully and creatively as we can”
“When his life was ruined, his family killed, his farm destroyed, Job knelt down on the ground and yelled up to the heavens, 'Why god? Why me?' and the thundering voice of God answered, 'There's just something about you that pisses me off”
“A life without love in it is like a heap of ashes upon a deserted hearth, with Life has taught us that love does not consist in gazing at each other but in looking outward together in the same direction”
“The simplification of life is one of the steps to inner peace. A persistent simplification will create an inner and outer well-being that places harmony in one's life.”
“I'm having the best day of my life, and I owe it all to not going to Church!”
“Each honest calling, each walk of life, has its own elite, its own aristocracy based on excellence of performance.”
“For man, as for flower and beast and bird, the supreme triumph is to be most vividly, most perfectly alive.”
“You die as you've lived. If you were paranoid in life, you'll probably be paranoid when you're dying.”
“Consistency is contrary to nature, contrary to life. The only completely consistent people are dead.”
“The happiness of this life depends less on what befalls you than the way in which you take it.”
“Life is an endless process of self-discovery.”
“I don't get high, but sometimes I wish I did. That way, when I messed up in life I would have an excuse. But right now there's no rehab for stupidity.”
“I have found the paradox, that if you love until it hurts, there can be no more hurt, only more love.”
“Life is short. Be swift to love! Make haste to be kind!”
“Each makes this cosmos and its construction the pivot of his emotional life, in order to find in this way peace and security which he can not find in the narrow whirlpool of personal experience.”
“A hundred times every day I remind myself that my inner and outer life depend on the labors of other men, living and dead, and that I must exert myself in order to give in the same measure as I have received and am still receiving.”
“Love is like a Rubix Cube, there are countless numbers of wrong twists and turns, but when you get it right, it looks perfect no matter what way you look at it”
“The Bible does not provide a map for life - only a compass”
“After your death you will be what you were before your birth.”
“If variety if the spice of life, marriage is the big can of leftover Spam”
“Life is like a game of cards. The hand you are dealt is determinism; the way you play it is free will.”
“Service is the rent we pay for being. It is the very purpose of life, and not something you do in your spare time.”
“Life is too short to be little. Man is never so manly as when he feels deeply, acts boldly, and expresses himself with frankness and with fervor.”
“The key to life is imagination. If you don't have that, no mater what you have, it's meaningless. If you do have imagination... you can make feast of straw.”
“There is no waste of time in life like that of making explanations.”
“If there is a sin against life, it consists perhaps not so much in despairing of life as in hoping for another life and in eluding the implacable grandeur of this life”
“Economy is half the battle of life. It is not so hard to earn money as to spend it well.”
“There is only one success -to be able to spend your life in your own way.”
“We're all of us sentenced to solitary confinement inside our own skins, for life!”
“Looking back you realize that a very special person passed briefly through your life- and it was you. It is not too late to find that person again.”
“Where there's life, there's hope.”
“There is a vitality, a life force, a quickening that is translated through you into action, and there is only one of you in all time, this expression is unique, and if you block it, it will never exist through any other medium; and be lost. The world will not have it. It is not your business to determine how good it is, not how it compares with other expression. It is your business to keep it yours clearly and directly, to keep the channel open. You do not even have to believe in yourself or your work. You have to keep open and aware directly to the urges that motivate you. Keep the channel open. No artist is pleased. There is no satisfaction whatever at any time. There is on a queer, divine dissatisfaction, a blessed unrest that keeps us marching and makes us more alive than the others.”
“Quotations help us remember the simple yet profound truths that give life perspective and meaning. When it comes to life's most important lessons, we can all use gentle reminders.”
“All of life is the exercise of risk.”
“Everything one does in life, even love, occurs in an express train racing toward death. To smoke opium is to get out of the train while it is still moving. It is to concern oneself with something other than life or death.”
“Today's audience knows more about what's on television than what's in life.”
“Music washes away from the soul the dust of everyday life.”
“One always dies too soon - or too late. And yet one's whole life is complete at that moment, with a line drawn neatly under it, ready for the summing up. You are - your life, and nothing else.”
“The truth of the matter is that there's nothing you can't accomplish if: (1) You clearly decide what it is that you're absolutely committed to achieving, (2) You're willing to take massive action, (3) You notice what's working or not, and (4) You continue to change your approach until you achieve what you want, using whatever life gives you along the way.”
“I don't try to imagine a God; it suffices to stand in awe of the structure of the world, insofar as it allows our inadequate senses to appreciate it”
“In life, as in a football game, the principle to follow is:hit the line hard.”
“I'm not after fame and success and fortune and power. It's mostly [that I want] to have a good job and have good friends; that's the good stuff in life.”
“Life has no meaning a priori . Before you come alive, life is nothing; it’s up to you to give it a meaning and value is nothing else but the meaning that you choose”
“I can do no other than be reverent before everything that is called life. I can do no other than to have compassion for all that is called life. That is the beginning and the foundation of all ethics.”
“Nothing in life is to be feared, it is only to be understood. Now is the time to understand more, so that we may fear less.”
“Success builds character, failure reveals it”
“We are meant to express how we feel about life. It's like breathing: Inhale the experiences of life, exhale how you feel about them. We are at our best when we can turn our impressions into expressions. The equation goes like this: Impression without expression equals depression.”
“He who learns the rules of wisdom, without conforming to them in his life, is like a man who labored in his fields, but did not sow”
“Remember that all through history the way of truth and love has always won. There have been tyrants and murderers and for a time they seem invincible but in the end, they always fall -- think of it, ALWAYS.”
“Each man should frame life so that at some future hour fact and his dreaming meet.”
“Have courage for the great sorrows of life and patience for the small ones; and when you have laboriously accomplished your daily task, go to sleep in peace. God is awake.”
“Paintings have a life of their own that derives from the painter's soul.”
“It is only too true that a lot of artists are mentally ill- it's a life which, to put it mildly, makes one an outsider. I'm all right when I completely immerse myself in work, but I'll always remain half crazy.”
“Brief is life but love is long.”
“The key that unlocks energy is ''Desire'.' It's also the key to a long and interesting life. If we expect to create any drive, any real force within ourselves, we have to get excited.”
“Maybe I'll live my whole life just getting by. Maybe I'll be discovered; maybe I'll be colonized. You could try to train me like a pet, you could try to teach me to behave, I'll tell you that I haven't learned it yet, I ain't gonna sit, I ain't gonna”
“Never forget that life can only be nobly inspired and rightly lived if you take it bravely and gallantly, as a splendid adventure in which you are setting out into an unknown country, to meet many a joy, to find many a comrade, to win and lose many a battle.”
“With the past, I have nothing to do; nor with the future. I live now.”
“What I must do is all that concerns me. This rule, equally arduous in actual and intellectual life, may serve for the whole distinction between greatness and meanness. It is harder because you will always find those who think they know what is your duty better than you know it.”
“We must be willing to get rid of the life we've planned, so as to have the life that is waiting for us.”
“At such moments, you realize that you and the other are, in fact, one. It's a big realization. Survival is the second law of life. The first is that we are all one.”
“If I think more about death than some other people, it is probably because I love life more than they do.”
“Ignorance and error are necessary to life, like bread and water.”
“The life of an uneducated man is as useless as the tail of a dog which neither covers its rear end, nor protects it from the bites of insects.”
“It is easy to be pleasant when life flows by like a song, but the man worth while is the one who will smile when everything goes dead wrong. For the test of the heart is trouble, and it always comes with years, and the smile that is worth the praises of earth is the smile that shines through the tears.”
“When you step on the brakes your life is in your foot's hands”
“We are forced to participate in the games of life before we can possibly learn how to use the options in the rules governing them.”
“You play. You win. You play. You lose. You play.”
“But thought's the slave of life, and life time's fool;
And time, that takes survey of all the world,
Must have a stop.”
“If your everyday life seems poor, don't blame it; blame yourself; admit to yourself that you are not enough of a poet to call forth its riches; because for the creator there is no poverty and no indifferent place.”
“We need a variety of input and influence and voices. You cannot get all the answers to life and business from one person or from one source.”
“Time is the coin of your life. It is the only coin you have, and only you can determine how it will be spent. Be careful lest you let other people spend it for you.”
“When you realize you're alive, you can live life!”
“A dreamer is one who can only find his way by moonlight, and his punishment is that he sees the dawn before the rest of the world.”
“Life without liberty is like a body without spirit.”
“Dreams are real as long as they last. Can we say more of life?”
“When one door closes, another opens. But we often look so regretfully upon the closed door that we don't see the one that has opened for us.”
“Long life to you, a wet mouth, and death in Ireland”
“The shoe that fits one person pinches another; there is no recipe for living that suits all cases.”
“Life is a culmination of the past, an awareness of the present, an indication of a future beyond knowledge, the quality that gives a touch of divinity to matter.”
“The joy of life consists in the exercise of one's energies, continual growth, constant change, the enjoyment of every new experience. To stop means simply to die. The eternal mistake of mankind is to set up an attainable ideal.”
“I venerate old age; and I love not the man who can look without emotion upon the sunset of life, when the dusk of evening begins to gather over the watery eye, and the shadows of twilight grow broader and deeper upon the understanding.”
“Unless someone like you cares a whole awful lot, nothing is going to get better. It's not.”
“I know of no more encouraging fact than the unquestioning ability of man to evaluate his life by a conscious endeavor”
“The secret of success is learning how to use pain and pleasure instead of having pain and pleasure use you. If you do that, you're in control of your life. If you don't, life controls you.”
“The good life is one inspired by love and guided by knowledge”
“I don't know anybody's road who's been paved perfectly for them, there are no manuals, you don't know what life has in store for you.”
“What we play is life.”
“I have received no more than one or two letters in my life that were worth the postage.”
“Men can only be happy when they do not assume that the object of life is happiness”
“I believe that the very purpose of our life is to seek happiness. That is clear. Whether one believes in religion or not, whether one believes in this religion or that religion, we all are seeking something better in life. So, I think, the very motion of our life is towards happiness…”
“States should have the right to enact... laws... particularly to end the inhumane practice of ending a life that otherwise could live.”
“A life without love is like a year without summer.”
“The real winners in life are the people who look at every situation with an expectation that they can make it work or make it better”
“The story of life is quicker then the blink of an eye, the story of love is hello, goodbye.”
“That getting along without false judgments would amount to getting along without life, negating life. To admit untruth as a necessary condition of life: this implies, to be sure, a perilous resistance against customary value-feelings.”
“He who lives by fighting with an enemy has an interest in the preservation of the enemy's life.”
“The Christian life is not a constant high. I have my moments of deep discouragement. I have to go to God in prayer with tears in my eyes, and say, 'O God, forgive me,' or 'Help me.'”
“Champion the right to be yourself; dare to be different and to set your own pattern; live your own life and follow your own star.”
“If you look at life one way, there is always cause for alarm”
“If you see a whole thing - it seems that it's always beautiful. Planets, lives... But up close a world's all dirt and rocks. And day to day, life's a hard job, you get tired, you lose the pattern.”
“Remember this, - that there is a proper dignity and proportion to be observed in the performance of every act of life”
“Slow down and enjoy life. It's not only the scenery you miss by going to fast - you also miss the sense of where you are going and why.”
“Literature adds to reality, it does not simply describe it. It enriches the necessary competencies that daily life requires and provides; and in this respect, it irrigates the deserts that our lives have already become.”
“However mean your life is, meet it and live it; do not shun it and call it hard names. It is not bad... it looks poorest when you are richest. The fault-finder will find faults, even in paradise. Love your life, poor as it is. You may have perhaps so”
“The Bluebird of Happiness long absent from his life, Ned is visited by the Chicken of Depression.”
“In my life, I have prayed but one prayer: oh Lord, make my enemies ridiculous. And God granted it.”
“Life can be pulled by goals just as surely as it can be pushed by drives.”
“The notion that human life is sacred just because it is human life is medieval.”
“We live but a fraction of our lives”
“I have treated many hundreds of patients. Among [those] in the second half of life-that is to say, over 35-there has not been one whose problem in the last resort was not that of finding a religious outlook on life.”
“Every day in a life fills the whole life with expectations and memory.”
“As from a large heap of flowers many garlands and wreaths are made, so by a mortal in this life there is much good work to be done.”
“Life at home is cramped and dirty, it is difficult to live a spiritual life completely, perfect and pure in all its parts while cabinned”
“I've got more than one membership to more than one club and I owe my life to the people that I love.”
“I mistrust total competence. I've always felt life is a series of small disasters we try to get through.”
“To look life in the face, always, to look life in the face, and to know it for what it is...at last, to love it for what it is, and then to put it away.”
“Sex lies at the root of life, and we can never learn to reverence life until we know how to understand sex.”
“I could not, at any age, be content to take my place by the fireside and simply look on. Life was meant to be lived. Curiousity must be kept alive. One must never, for whatever reason, turn his back on life.”
“The hardest thing to learn in life is which bridge to cross and which to burn.”
“Is there any one maxim which ought to be acted upon throughout one's whole life? Surely the maxim of loving kindness is such: Do not unto others what you would not they should do unto you.”
“Integrate what you believe in every single area of your life. Take your heart to work and ask the most and best of everybody else, too.”
“The mouth of a righteous man is a well of life: but violence covereth the mouth of the wicked (Proverbs 10:11).”
“My past is my wisdom to use today. . . my future is my wisdom yet to experience. Be in the present because that is where life resides.”
“The secret of a good life is to have the right loyalties and hold them in the right scale of values.”
“Up, sluggard, and waste not life; in the grave will be sleeping enough”
“Ah, sweet pity. Where would my love life have been without it?”
“Live and work but do not forget to play, to have fun in life and really enjoy it.”
“Life is not lost by dying; life is lost minute by minute, day by dragging day, in all the thousand small uncaring ways”
“One of the great lessons I've learned in athletics is that you've got to discipline your life. No matter how good you may be, you've got to be willing to cut out of your life those things that keep you from going to the top.”
“I've reached a point in life where it's no longer necessary to try to impress. If they like me the way I am, that's good. If they don't, that's too bad.”
“My whole life is waiting for the questions to which I have prepared answers.”
“Life has meaning only if one barters it day by day for something other than itself.”
“I am watching your chest rise and fall
like the tides of my life,
and the rest of it all
and your bones have been my bedframe
and your flesh has been my pillow
I am waiting for sleep
to offer up the deep
with both hands”
“One thing I have learned in a long life: that all our science, measured against reality, is primitive and childlike - and yet it is the most precious thing we have”
“Without work, all life goes rotten. But when work is soulless, life stifles and dies.”
“A library, to modify the famous metaphor of Socrates, should be the delivery room for the birth of ideas - a place where history comes to life.”
“Life is just one damned thing after another.”
“It is better to die than to preserve this life by incurring disgrace. The loss of life causes but a moment's grief, but disgrace brings grief every day of one's life.”
“I want to live my life so that my nights are not full of regrets”
“If you can organize your kitchen, you can organize your life.”
“Christianity is not a theory or speculation, but a life; not a philosophy of life, but a life and a living process.”
“A man's labor is not only his capital but his life. When it passes it returns never more. To utilize it, to prevent its wasteful squandering, to enable the poor man to bank it up for use hereafter, this surely is one of the most urgent tasks before civilization.”
“Don't be afraid your life will end; be afraid that it will never begin.”
“The soul which has no fixed purpose in life is lost; to be everywhere, is to be nowhere.”
“Life is the greatest bargain - we get it for nothing”
“Music is the mediator between the spiritual and the sensual life.”
“To discover life to the fullest, one must start within.”
“Today is life-the only life you are sure of. Make the most of today. Get interested in something. Shake yourself awake. Develop a hobby. Let the winds of enthusiasm sweep through you. Live today with gusto.”
“The certain prospect of death could sweeten every life with a precious and fragrant drop of levity - and now you strange apothecary souls have turned it into an ill-tasting drop of poison that makes the whole of life repulsive”
“I feel the capacity to care is the thing which gives life its deepest significance.”
“I blame my mother for my poor sex life. All she told me was 'the man goes on top and the woman underneath.' For three years my husband and I slept in bunk beds.”
“A man has made at least a start on discovering the meaning of human life when he plants shade trees under which he knows full well he will never sit.”
“Actually, all education is self-education. A teacher is only a guide, to point out the way, and no school, no matter how excellent, can give you education. What you receive is like the outlines in a child’s coloring book. You must fill in the colors yourself.”
“My whole life, my whole soul, my whole spirit is to blow that horn...”
“Life is too short for traffic”
“Life is a state of consciousness.”
“All mankind... being all equal and independent, no one ought to harm another in his life, health, liberty or possessions.”
“Forget regret, or life is yours to miss.”
“The duty of youth is to challenge corruption”
“If I had my life to live over, I would start barefoot earlier in the spring and stay that way later in the fall. I would go to more dances. I would ride more merry-go-rounds. I would pick more daisies.”
“That it will never come again is what makes life sweet.”
“The goal of all life is death.”
“Life is extraordinarily suave and sweet with certain natural, witty, affectionate people who have unusual distinction and are capable of every vice, but who make a display of none in public and about whom no one can affirm they have a single one. There is something supple and secret about them. Besides, their perversity gives spice to their most innocent occupations, such as taking a walk in the garden at night.”
“Your life story would not make a good book. Don't even try.”
“one of the strongest motives that lead men to art and science isescape from everyday life with its painful crudity and hopelessdreariness, from the fetters of one's own ever-shifting desires. Afinely tempered nature longs to escape from the personal life into theworld of objective perception and thought.”
“If a man hasn't discovered something that he will die for, he isn't fit to live.”
“You need to make a commitment, and once you make it, then life will give you some answers.”
“I am satisfied with the mystery of the eternity of life and with the awareness and a glimpse of the marvelous structure of the existing world, together with the devoted striving to comprehend a portion, be it ever so tiny, of the Reason that manifest”
“I truly believe that we can overcome any hurdle that lies before us and create the life we want to live. I have seen it happen time and time again.”
“So dear I love him that with him all deaths I could endure, without him live no life.”
“Life is given to us, we earn it by giving it.”
“I never approve, or disapprove, of anything now. It is an absurd attitude to take towards life. We are not sent into the world to air our moral prejudices. I never take any notice of what common people say, and I never interfere with what charming pe”
“We need not fear life, because God is the Ruler of all and we need not fear death, because He shares immortality with us.”
“The most rewarding things you do in life are often the ones that look like they cannot be done.”
“Life is a game. 
In order to have a game something has to be more important
than something else. 
If what already is, is more important than what isn't the game is over. 
So, life is a game in which what isn't is more important than what is. 
Let the good times roll.”
“Immortality is to live your life doing good things, and leaving your mark behind.”
“Life is a mirror and will reflect back to the thinker what he thinks into it.”
“Through our great good fortune, in our youth our hearts were touched with fire. It was given to us to learn at the outset that life is a profound and passionate thing.”
“I never saw an ugly thing in my life: for let the form of an object be what it may - light, shade, and perspective will always make it beautiful”
“We cannot tear out a single page of our life, but we can throw the whole book in the fire”
“The grace of God means something like: Here is your life. You might never have been, but you are because the party wouldn't have been complete without you.”
“Shame on the soul, to falter on the road of life while the body yet endures”
“Life is as tedious as a twice-told tale.”
“To have one's individuality completely ignored is like being pushed quite out of life--like being blown out as one blows out a light.”
“Gratitude helps you to grow and expand; gratitude brings joy and laughter into your life and into the lives of all those around you.”
“Life is tough, but it's tougher when you're stupid.”
“It's your life. Live it with people who are alive. It tends to be contagious.”
“Life is neither good or evil, but only a place for good and evil.”
“To the wise, life is a problem; to the fool, a solution”
“While I dance I cannot judge, I cannot hate, I cannot separate myself from life. I can only be joyful and whole. That is why I dance.”
“Receive every day as a resurrection from death, as a new enjoyment of life; meet every rising sun with such sentiments of God's goodness, as if you had seen it, and all things, new - created upon your account: and under the sense of so great a blessi”
“Man can alter his life by altering his thinking.”
“Life is uncertain. Eat dessert first.”
“Life is too short not to make the best and the most of everything that comes your way everyday.”
“To believe in yourself and to follow your dreams, to have goals in life and a drive to succeed, and to surround yourself with the things and the people that make you happy -
this is success!”
“Property is intended to serve life, and no matter how much we surround it with rights and respect, it has no personal being. It is part of the earth man walks on. It is not man.”
“This is the highest wisdom that I own; freedom and life are earned by those alone who conquer them each day anew.”
“The mind has a thousand eyes. And the heart but one; Yet the life of a whole life dies When love is done.”
“A tough lesson in life that one has to learn is that not everybody wishes you well.”
“One thing they never tell you about child raising is that for the rest of your life, at the drop of a hat, you are expected to know your child's name and how old he or she is.”
“Begin at once to live, and count each separate day as a separate life.”
“I'm a big fan of dreams. Unfortunately, dreams are our first casualty in life -- people seem to give them up, quicker than anything, for a 'reality.'”
“A happy life is one which is in accordance with its own nature.”
“The great use of life is to spend it for something that will outlast it.”
“Waves of a serene life pass over us from time to time, like flakes of sunlight over the fields in cloudy weather.”
“There is no justification without sanctification, no forgiveness without renewal of life, no real faith from which the fruits of new obedience do not grow.”
“Really, the fundamental, ultimate mystery -- the only thing you need to know to understand the deepest metaphysical secrets -- is this: that for every outside there is an inside and for every inside there is an outside, and although they are different, they go together.”
“The secret to a rich life is to have more beginnings than endings.”
“If I had my life to live over again, I'd dare to make more mistakes the next time”
“Sleep -- the most beautiful experience in life -- except drink.”
“The happiness of life is made up of minute fractions - the little, soon-forgotten charities of a kiss or smile, a kind look, a heart-felt compliment, and the countless infinitesimals of pleasurable and genial feeling”
“What matters in life is not what happens to you but what you remember and how you remember it.”
“Once in his life, every man is entitled to fall madly in love with a gorgeous redhead.”
“My philosophy is that not only are you responsible for your life, but doing the best at this moment puts you I the best place for the next moment.”
“Love is life. And if you miss love, you miss life.”
“Life is an operation which is done in a forward direction. One lives toward the future, because to live consists inexorably in doing, in each individual life making itself.”
“Only friends will tell you the truths you need to hear to make your life bearable.”
“There is no greater love than this. There is no greater gift that can ever be given. To be willing to die, so another might live -- there is no greater lover than this.”
“He remembered that she was pretty, and, more, that she had a special grace in the intimacy of life. She had the secret of individuality which excites--and escapes.”
“To elope is cowardly; it is running away from danger; and danger has become so rare in modern life”
“Life is short, but it's long enough to ruin any man who wants to be ruined”
“One should take good care not to grow too wise for so great a pleasure of life as laughter.”
“Anybody can write a three-volume novel. It merely requires a complete ignorance of both life and literature.”
“We must be willing to get rid of the life we've planned, so as to have the life that is waiting for us. The old skin has to be shed before the new one can come.”
“The inward area is the first place of loss of true Christian life, of true spirituality, and the outward sinful act is the result”
“There is only one real tragedy in a woman's life. The fact that her past is always her lover, and her future invariably her husband.”
“We have a good life when we manage to live with both satisfied and unsatisfied needs, when we are not obsessed by what is beyond our reach.”
“By seeing London, I have seen as much of life as the world can show”
“Life is like playing a violin solo in public and learning the instrument as one goes on.”
“O excellent! I love long life better than figs.”
“If we have our own why of life, we shall get along with almost any how”
“Life works out - but not as you expect it”
“Friends are flowers in the garden of life”
“All my life, whenever it comes time to make a decision, I make it and forget about it”
“Most of what matters in your life takes place in your absence.”
“Life is just a journey.”
“All you need in this life is ignorance and confidence; then success is sure.”
“We know that birth takes a woman from one place in her life to another. The birth of a child certainly does change her viewpoint of herself and I believe her viewpoint of the world.”
“Friendship is neither a formality nor a mode: it is rather a life”
“Tomorrow is the most important thing in life. Comes into us at midnight very clean. It's perfect when it arrives and it puts itself in our hands. It hopes we've learned something from yesterday.”
“We have always held to the hope, the belief, the conviction that there is a better life, a better world, beyond the horizon.”
“The meaning of life is that it stops”
“We are certainly in a common class with the beasts; every action of animal life is concerned with seeking bodily pleasure and avoiding pain”
“The best and safest thing is to keep a balance in your life, acknowledge the great powers around us and in us. If you can do that, and live that way, you are really a wise man.”
“Once the realization is accepted that even between the closest human beings infinite distances continue, a wonderful living side by side can grow, if they succeed in loving the distance between them which makes it possible for each to see the other whole against the sky.”
“Abortion is inherently different from other medical procedures because no other procedure involves the purposeful termination of a potential life.”
“Each day is a special gift from God, and while life may not always be fair, you must never allow the pains, hurdles, and handicaps of the moment to poison your attitude and plans for yourself and your future. You can never win when you wear the ugly cloak of self-pity, and the sour sound of whining will certainly frighten away any opportunity for success. Never again. There is a better way.”
“When something tragic happens, it's a rude awakening that life doesn't go exactly the way we plan. You grow up faster and realize part of life's beauty is that it isn't all planned, that there are many unknowns. Nothing's guaranteed, but you have to live. You can't just walk through life, you have to actually embrace it and go after it.”
“I just want to make a point that it's not just great teachers that sometimes shape your life. Sometimes it's the absence of great teachers that shapes your life and being ignored can be just as good for a person as being lauded.”
“My feeling is that there is nothing in life but refraining from hurting others, and comforting those that are sad.”
“To be free is to have achieved your life.”
“Life is a grindstone, and whether it grinds a man down or polishes him up depends on the stuff he's made of”
“Life's too short for chess”
“The goal of life is to make your heartbeat match the beat of the universe, to match your nature with Nature.”
“There is more to life than simply increasing its speed.”
“Speakers who talk about what life has taught them never fail to keep the attention of their listeners.”
“It is a terrible thing for a man to find out suddenly that all his life he has been speaking nothing but the truth.”
“Give me the luxuries of life and I will willingly do without the necessities.”
“The first step to eternal life, is you have to die.”
“I will not have my life narrowed down. I will not bow down to somebody else's whim or to someone else's ignorance.”
“There’s always the chance you could die right in the middle of your life story”
“Life was a funny thing that occurred on the way to the grave”
“It's not the men in my life that count, it's the life in my men.”
“Accept responsibility for your life. Know that it is you who will get you where you want to go, no one else.”
“Be brave enough to live life creatively. The creative place where no one else has ever been.”
“Love is like a Rubix Cube, there are countless numbers of wrong twists and turns, but when you get it right, it looks perfect no matter what way you look at it”
“Learn to enjoy every minute of your life. Be happy now. Don’t wait for something outside of yourself to make you happy in the future. Think how really precious is the time you have to spend, whether it’s at work or with your family.”
“Before success comes in any man's life, he's sure to meet with much temporary defeat and, perhaps some failures. When defeat overtakes a man, the easiest and the most logical thing to do is to quit. That's exactly what the majority of men do.”
“It takes half your life before you discover life is a do-it-yourself project.”
“True heroism consists in being superior to the ills of life, in whatever shape they may challenge us to combat.”
“The battle of life is, in most cases, fought uphill; and to win it without a struggle were perhaps to win it without honor. If there were no difficulties there would be no success; if there were nothing to struggle for, there would be nothing to be achieved.”
“The great thing is, if one can, to stop regarding all the unpleasant things as interruptions in one's "own" or "real" life. The truth is, of course, that what one regards as interruptions are precisely one's life.”
“Life is the soul's nursery -
Its training place for the destinies of eternity.”
“Love is a chain of love as nature is a chain of life.”
“Every life has a measure of sorrow, and sometimes this is what awakens us.”
“All I really need to know about how to live and what to do and how to be I learned in kindergarten. Remember the Dick-and-Jane books and the first word you learned--the biggest word of all--look.”
“Any life is made up of a single moment, the moment in which a man finds out, once and for all, who he is.”
“Life stinks, but that doesn't mean you don't enjoy it”
“Our business in life is not to get ahead of others, but to get ahead of ourselves”
“We plan our lives according to a dream that came to us in our childhood, and we find that life alters our plans. And yet, at the end, from a rare height, we also see that our dream was our fate. It's just that providence had other ideas as to how we would get there. Destiny plans a different route, or turns the dream around, as if it were a riddle, and fulfills the dream in ways we couldn't have expected.”
“Without forgiveness life is governed by an endless cycle of resentment and retaliation”
“I love acting. It is so much more real than life.”
“There's something about death that is comforting. The thought that you could die tomorrow frees you to appreciate your life now.”
“You buy furniture. You tell yourself, this is the last sofa I will ever need in my life. Buy the sofa, then for a couple years you're satisfied that no matter what goes wrong, at least you've got your sofa issue handled. Then the right set of dishes. Then the perfect bed. The drapes. The rug. Then you're trapped in your lovely nest, and the things you used to own, now they own you.”
“Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be, the last of life, for which the first was made. Our times are in his hand who saith, 'A whole I planned, youth shows but half; Trust God: See all, nor be afraid!'”
“Another fresh new year is here . . .
Another year to live!
To banish worry, doubt, and fear,
To love and laugh and give!
This bright new year is given me
To live each day with zest . . .
To daily grow and try to be
My highest and my best!
I have the opportunity
Once more to right some wrongs,
To pray for peace, to plant a tree,
And sing more joyful songs!”
“Life becomes precious and more special to us when we look for the little everyday miracles and get excited about the privileges of simply being human”
“Life is all memory, except for the one present moment that goes by you so quickly you hardly catch it going”
“To put meaning in one's life may end in madness,
But life without meaning is the torture 
Of restlessness and vague desire--
It is a boat longing for the sea and yet afraid.”
“I love inspiring people, and if I can make a difference in one person's life, then that's success for me!”
“Our very strength as lesbians lies in the fact that we are outside of patriarchy; our existence challenges its life.”
“I don't believe people are looking for the meaning of life as much as they are looking for the experience of being alive.”
“Purpose is what gives life a meaning.”
“Pay mind to your own life, your own health, and wholeness. A bleeding heart is of no help to anyone if it bleeds to death.”
“True life is lived when tiny changes occur.”
“Childhood is that wonderful time of life when all you need to do to lose weight is take a bath.”
“Without community service, we would not have a strong quality of life. It's important to the person who serves as well as the recipient. It's the way in which we ourselves grow and develop.”
“I have never been bored an hour in my life. I get up every morning wondering what new strange glamorous thing is going to happen and it happens at fairly regular intervals.”
“Maybe that's what life is...a wink of the eye and winking stars.”
“The artist does not tinker with the universe, he recreates it out of his own experience and understanding of life.”
“The greatest pleasure of life is love.”
“My biggest fear in life is to be forgotten.”
“The happiness of your life depends upon the quality of your thoughts: therefore, guard accordingly, and take care that you entertain no notions unsuitable to virtue and reasonable nature.”
“Do every act of your life as if it were your last.”
“If you think nobody cares if you're alive, try missing a couple of car payments.”
“Tragedy on the stage is no longer enough for me, I shall bring it into my own life.”
“Listen to the Exhortation of the Dawn! Look to this Day! For it is Life, the very Life of Life. In its brief course lie all the Verities and Realities of your Existence. The Bliss of Growth, The Glory of Action, The Splendor of Beauty; For Yesterday is but a Dream, And To-morrow is only a Vision; But To-day well lived makes Every Yesterday a Dream of Happiness, And every Tomorrow a Vision of Hope. Look well therefore to this Day! Such is the Salutation of the Dawn!”
“Creativity - like human life itself - begins in darkness.”
“The difference between men and women is that, if given the choice between saving the life of an infant or catching a fly ball, a woman will automatically choose to save the infant, without even considering if there's a man on base.”
“No one takes my life away from me. I give it up of my own free will. [John 10:18]”
“Truth is a deep kindness that teaches us to be content in our everyday life and share with the people the same happiness.”
“He who binds to himself a joy Does the winged life destroy; But he who kisses the joy as it flies Lives in eternity's sunrise”
“Life is hard. Then you die. Then they throw dirt in your face. Then the worms eat you. Be grateful it happens in that order.”
“If a man neglects education, he walks lame to the end of his life”
“Life is pain, highness. Anyone who tells you differently is selling something.”
“When I chased after money, I never had enough. When I got my life on purpose and focused on giving of myself and everything that arrived into my life, then I was prosperous.”
“Early in life I had to choose between honest arrogance and hypocritical humility. I chose the former and have seen no reason to change.”
“God asks no man whether he will accept life. That is not the choice. You must take it. The only choice is how.”
“Four things come not back: the spoken word, the sped arrow, the past life and the neglected opportunity.”
“Respect for one's parents is the highest duty of civil life.”
“Life has no pleasure higher or nobler than that of friendship”
“Life is anything that dies when you stomp on it.”
“Medvienko: Why do you always wear black? Masha: I am in mourning for my life. I am unhappy.”
“From now on, any definition of a successful life must include serving others.”
“I despise making the most of one's time. Half of the pleasures of life consist of the opportunities one has neglected.”
“I don't feel like a dream girl, but I think it's really nice. I guess a part of me wishes I got that sort of attention in my real life. Because in my real life, I'm this weird, dorky girl who just hangs out with her dog.”
“Somebody should tell us, right at the start of our lives, that we are dying. Then we might live life to the limit, every minute of every day. Do it! I say. Whatever you want to do, do it now! There are only so many tomorrows.”
“Be aware of wonder. Live a balanced life - learn some and think some and draw and paint and sing and dance and play and work every day some.”
“There are two good things in life freedom of thought and freedom of action”
“Life is mostly froth and bubble, Two things stand like stone, Kindness in another's trouble, Courage in your own”
“From the standpoint of daily life, however, there is one thing we do know: that we are here for the sake of each other - above all for those upon whose smile and well-being our own happiness depends, and also for the countless unknown souls with whose fate we are connected by a bond of sympathy. Many times a day I realize how much my own outer and inner life is built upon the labors of my fellow men, both living and dead, and how earnestly I must exert myself in order to give in return as much as I have received.”
“Ignorance is the peace of life.”
“There is nothing so strong or safe in an emergency of life as the simple truth”
“A man who has work that suits him and a wife, whom he loves, has squared his accounts with life”
“I think that what we're seeking is an experience of being alive, so that our life experiences on the purely physical plane will have resonances within our own innermost being and reality, so that we actually feel the rapture of being alive.”
“Life begins at forty”
“Grace must find expression in life, otherwise it is not grace.”
“Certainly there are things in life that money can't buy, but it's very funny - Did you ever try buying then without money?”
“The demon that you can swallow gives you it’s power, and the greater life’s pain, the greater life’s reply.”
“The longer I live the more beautiful life becomes”
“The longer I live the more beautiful life becomes. If you foolishly ignore beauty, you will soon find yourself without it. Your life will be impoverished. But if you invest in beauty, it will remain with you all the days of your life.”
“Sometimes accidents happen in life from which we have need of a little madness to extricate ourselves successfully”
“The American father is never seen in London. He passes his life entirely in Wall Street and communicates with his family once a month by means of a telegram in cipher.”
“It seems, in fact, as though the second half of a man's life is made up of nothing but the habits he has accumulated during the first half”
“Original Experience has not been interpreted for you, and so you’ve got to work out life for yourself. Either you can take it or you can’t. You don’t have to go far off the interpreted path to find yourself in very difficult situations. The courage to face the trials and to bring a whole new body of possibilities into the field of interpreted experience for other people to experience – that is the hero’s deed.”
“He who throws away a friend is as bad as he who throws away his life.”
“Oh while I live, to be the ruler of life, not a slave, to meet life as a powerful conqueror, and nothing exterior to me will ever take command of me.”
“In the torment of the insufficiency of everything attainable we eventually learn that here, in this life, all symphonies remain unfinished”
“The things we truly love stay with us always, locked in our hearts as long as life remains.”
“Life is just a bowl of cherries, dont take it serious, its mysterious. Life is just a bowl of cherries, so live and laugh and laugh at love, love a laugh, laugh and love.”
“I'd like to think the best of me was still hiding up in my sleeve.”
“Life is not easy for any of us. But what of that? We must have perseverance and above all confidence in ourselves. We must believe that we are gifted for something, and that this thing, at whatever cost, must be attained.”
“What sets worlds in motion is the interplay of differences, their attractions and repulsions. 
Life is plurality, death is uniformity. 
By suppressing differences and pecularities, by eliminating different civilizations and cultures, progress weakens life and favors death. 
The ideal of a single civilization for everyone, implicit in the cult of progress and technique, impoverishes and mutilates us. 
Every view of the world that becomes extinct, every culture that disappears, diminishes a possibility of life”
“Telling a teenager the facts of life is like giving a fish a bath.”
“Literature always anticipates life. It does not copy it, but moulds it to its purpose. The nineteenth century, as we know it, is largely an invention of Balzac.”
“He had noticed that events were cowards: they didn't occur singly, but instead they would run in packs and leap out at him all at once.”
“The most important things to do in the world are to get something to eat, something to drink and somebody to love you.”
“Life itself is a quotation.”
“Give me life, give me pain, give me myself again.”
“The greatest discovery of my generation is that a human being can alter his life by altering his attitudes.”
“To change ones life: Start immediately. Do it flamboyantly.”
“I'm having the time of my life figuring out this next move.”
“The resistance that you fight physically in the gym and the resistance that you fight in life can only build a strong character.”
“I do not like the man who squanders life for fame; give me the man who living makes a name.”
“Life, if well lived, is long enough.”
“The only mystery in life is why the kamikaze pilots wore helmets”
“He who has learned to pray has learned the greatest secret of a holy and happy life.”
“We spend precious hours fearing the inevitable. It would be wise to use that time adoring our families, cherishing our friends, and living our lives.”
“Caresses, expressions of one sort or another, are necessary to the life of the affections as leaves are to the life of a tree. If they are wholly restrained, love will die at the roots.”
“Such is the state of life, that none are happy but by the anticipation of change: the change itself is nothing; when we have made it, the next wish is to change again. The world is not yet exhausted; let me see something tomorrow which I never saw be”
“Lack of loyalty is one of the major causes of failure in every walk of life”
“That perfect tranquillity of life, which is nowhere to be found but in retreat, a faithful friend and a good library”
“An authentic life is the most personal form of worship. Everyday life has become my prayer.”
“There are many sham diamonds in this life which pass for real, and vice versa.”
“When you're young, your whole life is about the pursuit of fun. Then, you grow up and learn to be cautious. You could break a bone or a heart. You look before you leap and sometimes you don't leap at all because there's not always someone there to catch you. And in life, there's no safety net. When did it stop being fun and start being scary?”
“Let life happen to you. Believe me: life is in the right, always.”
“As a teenager you are at the last stage in your life when you will be happy to hear that the phone is for you.”
“I have one life and one chance to make it count for something . . . I'm free to choose what that something is, and the something I've chosen is my faith. Now, my faith goes beyond theology and religion and requires considerable work and effort. My faith demands -- this is not optional -- my faith demands that I do whatever I can, wherever I am, whenever I can, for as long as I can with whatever I have to try to make a difference.”
“Older and wiser voices can help you find the right path, if you are only willing to listen.”
“Nothing can add more power to your life than concentrating all your energies on a limited set of targets.”
“As is a tale, so is life: not how long it is, but how good it is, is what matters.”
“Life is the fire that burns and the sun that gives light. Life is the wind and the rain and the thunder in the sky. Life is matter and is earth, what is and what is not, and what beyond is in Eternity.”
“We learn not in the school, but in life”
“This is the reason we cannot complain of life:it keeps no one against his will”
“Life, liberty, and property do not exist because men have made laws. On the contrary, it was the fact that life, liberty, and property existed beforehand that caused men to make laws in the first place.”
“The young physician starts life with 20 drugs for each disease, and the old physician ends life with one drug for 20 diseases.”
“There are two rules in life: Rule #1: Don't sweat the small stuff. Rule #2: Everything is small stuff.”
“Live your life, do your work, then take your hat”
“Know that you yourself are a miracle.”
“You're the love of my life and the breath in my prayers. Take my hand and lead me there.. what I need is you here. I can't forget the taste of your mouth from your lips all the heavens pour out. I can't forget when we are one. With you alone I am free.”
“Because there is very little honor left in American life, there is a certain built-in tendency to destroy masculinity in American men.”
“Lead me from death to life, from falsehood to truth; Lead me from despair to hope, from fear to trust; Lead me from hate to love, from war to peace; Let peace fill our heart, our world, our universe”
“I learned that the only way you are going to get anywhere in life is to work hard at it. Whether you're a musician, a writer, an athlete or a businessman, there is no getting around it. If you do, you'll win - if you don't, you won't.”
“We die daily. Happy those who daily come to life as well.”
“A life lived in chaos is an impossibility”
“My one regret in life is that I am not someone else.”
“Fill your life with as many moments and experiences of joy and passion as you humanly can. Start with one experience and build on it.”
“In life, all good things come hard, but wisdom is the hardest to come by.”
“Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends (John 15:13).”
“To be able to enjoy one's past life is to live twice”
“People can only live fully by helping others to live. When you give life to friends you truly live. Cultures can only realize their further richness by honoring other traditions. And only by respecting natural life can humanity continue to exist.”
“An autobiography is only to be trusted when it reveals something disgraceful. A man who gives a good account of himself is probably lying, since any life when viewed from the inside is simply a series of defeats.”
“While there's life, there's hope.”
“It has been said that man is a rational animal. All my life I have been searching for evidence which could support this.”
“Nothing is as important as passion. No matter what you want to do with your life, be passionate.”
“Man's life is like a drop of dew on a leaf.”
“Of course there is no formila for success except perhaps and unconditional acceptance of life and what it brings.”
“Plunge boldly into the thick of life!”
“We can't reach old age by another man's road. My habits protect my life but they would assassinate you.”
“There was never yet an uninteresting life. Such a thing is an impossibility. Inside of the dullest exterior there is a drama, a comedy, and a tragedy.”
“It is a pity that we cannot escape from life when we are young.”
“I can't think of a more wonderful thanksgiving for the life I have had than that everyone should be jolly at my funeral”
“Life is a tale told by an idiot -- full of sound and fury, signifying nothing.”
“Life is as tedious as a twice-told tale vexing the dull ear of a drowsy man”
“When you love someone so deeply they become your life, it's easy to succumb overwhelming fears inside. Blindly I imagined I could keep you under a glass. Now I understand to hold you I must open my hand and watch you rise.”
“Forgiveness is the giving, and so the receiving, of life.”
“The life of man in this world is like the life of a fly in a room filled with 100 boys, each armed with a fly swatter”
“After all it is those who have a deep and real inner life who are best able to deal with the irritating details of outer life”
“A mouse never entrusts his life to only one hole”
“Early in life I had noticed that no event is ever correctly reported in a newspaper”
“The life given us by nature is short, but the memory of a life well spent is eternal.”
“One of the great joys of life is creativity. Information goes in, gets shuffled about, and comes out in new and interesting ways.”
“Possessions, outward success, publicity, luxury - to me these have always been contemptible. I believe that a simple and unassuming manner of life is best for every one, best both for the body and the mind.”
“One should guard against preaching to young people success in the customary form as the main aim in life. The most important motive for work in school and in life is pleasure in work, pleasure in its result and the knowledge of the value of the result to the community.”
“The best thing you've ever done for me…is to help me take my life less seriously…’cuz its only life after all…”
“Life's most urgent question is: What are you doing for others?”
“True friendship multiplies the good in life and divides its evils. Strive to have friends, for life without friends is like life on a desert island..to find one real friend in a lifetime is good fortune; to keep him is a blessing.”
“The closest you will ever come in this life to an orderly universe is a good library”
“Each life makes its own immitation of immortality.”
“Life is a zoo in a jungle.”
“We quaff the cup of life with eager haste without draining it, instead of which it only overflows the brim / objects press around us, filling the mind with the throng of desires that wait upon them, so that we have no room for the thoughts of death.”
“All my life I've looked at words as though I were seeing them for the first time.”
“Death is the veil which those who live call life; They sleep, and it is lifted”
“Life's up and downs provide windows of opportunity to determine your values and goals - Think of using all obstacles as stepping stones to build the life you want”
“Life is a gamble at terrible odds, if it were a bet, you would not take it”
“The quality of life is determined by its activities.”
“Flops are a part of life's menu and I've never been a girl to miss out on any of the courses.”
“Life is "trying things to see if they work."”
“Life is full of chances and changes, and the most prosperous of men may...meet with great misfortunes.”
“It is normal to give away a little of one's life in order not to lose it all.”
“Life is the farce which everyone has to perform.”
“When we acknowledge that all of life is sacred and that each act is an act of choice and therefore sacred, then life is a sacred dance lived consciously each moment. When we live at this level, we participate in the creation of a better world.”
“There comes a time in every rightly constructed boy's life that he has a raging desire to go somewhere and dig for hidden treasure”
“Celebrate the happiness that friends are always giving, make every day a holiday and celebrate just living!”
“The praise of those who sleep in earth,
The pleasant memory of their worth,
The hope to meet when life is past,
Shall heal the tortured mind at last.”
“Our whole life is but a greater and longer childhood”
“Once you accept your own death, all of a sudden you're free to live. You no longer care about your reputation. You no longer care except so far as your life can be used tactically to promote a cause you believe in.”
“I find my life is a lot easier the lower I keep everyone's expectations.”
“Just as in earthly life lovers long for the moment when they are able to breathe forth their love for each other, to let their souls blend in a soft whisper, so the mystic longs for the moment when in prayer he can, as it were, creep into God.”
“Life takes on meaning when you become motivated, set goals and charge after them in an unstoppable manner.”
“There is only one meaning of life: the act of living itself.”
“I keep following this sort of hidden river of my life, you know, whatever the topic or impulse which comes, I follow it along trustingly. And I don't have any sense of its coming to a kind of crescendo, or of its petering out either. It is just going steadily along.”
“Youth! There is nothing like youth. The middle-aged are mortgaged to Life. The old are in Life's lumber-room. But youth is the Lord of Life. Youth has a kingdom waiting for it. Every one is born a king, and most people die in exile.”
“I've decided life is too fragile to finish a book I dislike just because it cost $16.95 and everyone else loved it. Or eat a fried egg with a broken yolk (which I hate) when the dog would leap over the St. Louis Arch for it.”
“I am beginning to learn that it is the sweet, simple things of life which are the real ones after all.”
“All experiences of life seems to prove that the impediments thrown in the way of the human advancement may for the most part be overcome by steady good conduct, honest zeal, activity, perseverance and above all, by a determined resolution to surmount”
“Of all the things which wisdom acquires to produce the blessedness of the complete life far the greatest is the possession of Friendship.”
“"Life and death, energy and peace, if i stop today it was still worth it. Even the terrible mistakes, that I have made and would have unmade if I could. The pains that have burned me and scarred my soul, it was worth it for having been allowed to walk where I've walked. Which was to hell on earth, heaven on earth, back again, into, under, far in between, through it, in it and above..."
Gia Marie Carangi 1960-1986”
“The angel of the Family is Woman. Mother, wife, or sister, Woman is the caress of life, the soothing sweetness of affection shed over its toils, a reflection for the individual of the loving providence which watches over Humanity. In her there is treasure enough of consoling tenderness to allay every pain. Moreover for every one of us she is the initiator of the future. The mother's first kiss teaches the child love; the first holy kiss of the woman he loves teaches man hope and faith in life; and love and faith create a desire for perfection and the power of reaching towards it step by step; create the future, in short, of which the living symbol is the child, link between us and the generations to come. Through her the Family, with its divine mystery of reproduction, points to Eternity.”
“In Alzheimer's [disease] the mind dies first: Names, dates, places-the interior scrapbook of an entire life-fade into mists of nonrecognition.”
“Teachers are reservoirs from which, through the process of education, students draw the water of life.”
“Our life always expresses the result of our dominant thoughts.”
“The difference between life and the movies is that a script has to make sense, and life doesn't.”
“There is no more fatal blunderer than he who consumes the greater part of his life getting his living.”
“I have enjoyed greatly the second blooming that comes when you finish the life of the emotions and of personal relations; and suddenly find - at the age of fifty, say - that a whole new life has opened before you, filled with things you can think about, study, or read about...It is as if a fresh sap of ideas and thoughts was rising in you.”
“Ethics is nothing else than reverence for life.”
“This, and this alone, is Christianity, a universal holiness in every part of life, a heavenly wisdom in all our actions, not conforming to the spirit and temper of the world but turning all worldly enjoyments into means of piety and devotion to God.”
“Life isn't fair. It's just fairer than death, that's all.”
“Life has no meaning unless one lives it with a will, at least to the limit of one's will. Virtue, good, evil are nothing but words, unless one takes them apart in order to build something with them; they do not win their true meaning until one knows how to apply them.”
“I'm lost in the middle of my birthday. I want my friends, their touch, with the earth's last love. I will take life's final offering, I will take the last human blessing.”
“Healthy children will not fear life if their elders have integrity enough not to fear death.”
“This life is a hospital in which every patient is possessed with a desire to change his bed.”
“We are built to conquer environment, solve problems, achieve goals, and we find no real satisfaction or happiness in life without obstacles to conquer and goals to achieve.”
“The road of life is rocky and you may stumble too. So while you point your fingers someone else is judging you.”
“Every man is a borrower and a mimic, life is theatrical and literature a quotation”
“I never tried to prove nothing, just wanted to give a good show. My life has always been my music, it's always come first, but the music ain't worth nothing if you can't lay it on the public. The main thing is to live for that audience, 'cause what you're there for is to please the people.”
“Your goals are the road maps that guide you and show you what is possible for your life.”
“The truth is you don't know what is going to happen tomorrow. Life is a crazy ride, and nothing is guaranteed.”
“To believe in love, to be ready to give up anything for it, to be willing to risk your life for it, is the ultimate tragedy.”
“It's the circle of life, and it moves us all, through despair and hope, through faith and love, 'till we find our place, on the path unwinding”
“The quality of your life is dependent upon the quality of the life of your cells. If the bloodstream is filled with waste products, the resulting environment does not promote a strong, vibrant, healthy cell life-nor a biochemistry capable of creating a balanced emotional life for an individual.”
“There's a need for accepting responsibility - for a person's life and making choices that are not just ones for immediate short-term comfort. You need to make an investment, and the investment is in health and education.”
“There's no life without humour. It can make the wonderful moments of life truly glorious, and it can make tragic moments bearable.”
“I made one great mistake in my life-when I signed the letter to President Roosevelt recommending that atom bombs be made but there was some justification-the danger that the Germans would make them.”
“It's as large as life, and twice as natural!”
“Even as the unborn babe is in the womb of his mother, these five are fixed as his life destiny: his life span, his activities, his acquisition of wealth and knowledge, and his time of death.”
“I do not trust people who don't love themselves and yet tell me, 'I love you.' There is an African saying which is: Be careful when a naked person offers you a shirt.”
“The happiness which brings enduring worth to life is not the superficial happiness that is dependent on circumstances. It is the happiness and contentment that fills the soul even in the midst of the most distressing circumstances and the most bitter environment. It is the kind of happiness that grins when things go wrong and smiles through the tears. The happiness for which our souls ache is one undisturbed by success or failure, one which will root deeply inside us and give inward relaxation, peace, and contentment, no matter what the surface problems may be. That kind of happiness stands in need of no outward stimulus.”
“If one advances confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the life he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in common hours.”
“God is unchanging in His love. He loves you. He has a plan for your life. Don't let the newspaper headlines frighten you. God is still sovereign; He's still on the throne.”
“There are two things that one must get used to or one will find life unendurable: the damages of time and injustices of men.”
“A happy life is one spent in learning, earning, and yearning”
“Education is sown in children but must be cultivated all life long.”
“The quality of life is so different in France. There is the possibility of living a simple life. I would never contemplate raising my daughter in LA. I would never raise any child there.”
“Today, more than ever before, life must be characterized by a sense of Universal responsibility, not only nation to nation and human to human, but also human to other forms of life.”
“If it doesn't work out there will never be any doubt that the pleasure was worth all the pain.”
“There is nothing holier in this life of ours than the first consciousness of love, the first fluttering of its silken wings.”
“Into each life some rain must fall, some days must be dark and dreary.”
“Your belief in God is merely an escape from your monotonous, stupid and cruel life”
“When life is too easy for us, we must beware or we may not be ready to meet the blows which sooner or later come to everyone, rich or poor.”
“Of all the traps and pitfalls in life, self-disesteem is the deadliest, and the hardest to overcome, for it is a pit designed and dug by our own hands, summed up in the phrase, "It's no use - I can't do it”
“kudos to the educators, athletes, dancers, judges, janitors, politicians, artists, actors, writers, singers, poets, and social activist, to all who dare to look at like with humor, determination and respect”
“In nine lifetimes, you'll never know as much about your cat as your cat knows about you.”
“I was not looking for my dreams to interpret my life, but rather for my life to interpret my dreams”
“If the only prayer you said in your whole life was, 'thank you,' that would suffice”
“It is impossible to go through life without trust: that is to be imprisoned in the worst cell of all, oneself”
“He that prefers the beautiful to the useful in life will, undoubtedly, like children who prefer sweetmeats to bread, destroy his digestion and acquire a very fretful outlook on the world.”
“A man is truly ethical only when he obeys the compulsion to help all life which he is able to assist, and shrinks from injuring anything that lives.”
“History is the fiction we invent to persuade ourselves that events are knowable and that life has order and direction.”
“If you lose hope, somehow you lose the vitality that keeps life moving, you lose that courage to be, that quality that helps you go on in spite of it all. And so today I still have a dream.The Trumpet of Conscience”
“If I can put one touch of rosy sunset into the life of any man or woman, I shall feel that I have worked with God.”
“School is practice for future life, practice makes perfect and nobodys perfect, so why practice?”
“...no pain has been or shall be able to tempt me into giving false testimony about life as I recognize it.”
“They are much to be pitied who have not been given a taste for nature early in life.”
“When we come into the present, we begin to feel the life around us again, but we also encounter whatever we have been avoiding. We must have the courage to face whatever is present / our pain, our desires, our grief, our loss, our secret hopes our love / everything that moves us most deeply.”
“Life is an adventure in forgiveness.”
“There is but one truly serious philosophical problem, and that is suicide. Judging whether life is or is not worth living amounts to answering the fundamental question of philosophy.”
“If you want greater prosperity in your life, start forming a vacuum to receive it.”
“Live your life fom your heart. Share from your heart. And your story will touch and heal people's souls.”
“The verdict you pronounce upon the source of your livelihood is the verdict you pronounce upon your life”
“Good morning, Life -- and all
Things glad and beautiful.”
“Smiles, tears, of all my life! - and, if God choose, I shall but love thee better after death”
“The true harvest of my life is intangible - a little star dust caught, a portion of the rainbow I have clutched”
“Life is neither a good nor an evil: it is a field for good and evil”
“Only I can change my life. No one can do it for me.”
“The only mistake in life is the lesson not learned.”
“The only thing you will ever possess is yourself, and that only briefly, if at all.”
“Nietzsche says that we will live the same life, over and over again. God - I'll have to sit through the Ice Capades again.”
“One is responsible to life: It is the small beacon in that terrifying darkness from which we come and to which we shall return.”
“Programming is like sex: one mistake and you have to support it for the rest of your life.”
“We are, each of us angels with only one wing; and we can only fly by embracing one another.”
“The less routine the more life.”
“When you realize you want to spend the rest of your life with somebody, you want the rest of your life to start as soon as possible.”
“Television is not real life. In real life people actually have to leave the coffee shop and go to jobs.”
“I don't believe one grows older. I think that what happens early on in life is that at a certain age one stands still and stagnates.”
“Life happens too fast for you ever to think about it. If you could just persuade people of this, but they insist on amassing information.”
“Life is made up, not of great sacrifices or duties, but of little things, in which smiles, and kindnesses, and small obligations, given habitually, are what win and preserve the heart and secure comfort”
“The secret of happiness is freedom. The secret of freedom is courage.”
“Let us put our minds together and see what life we can make for our children.”
“Most people have come to prefer certain of life’s experiences and deny and reject others, unaware of the value of the hidden things that may come wrapped in plain and even ugly paper. In avoiding all pain and seeking comfort at all costs, we may be left without intimacy or compassion; in rejecting change and risk we often cheat ourselves of the quest; in denying our suffering we may never know our strength or our greatness.”
“No matter where you go or what you do, you live your entire life within the confines of your head.”
“They [Young People] have exalted notions, because they have not been humbled by life or learned its necessary limitations; moreover, their hopeful disposition makes them think themselves equal to great things / and that means having exalted notions. They would always rather do noble deeds than useful ones: Their lives are regulated more by moral feeling than by reasoning / all their mistakes are in the direction of doing things excessively and vehemently. They overdo everything / they love too much, hate too much, and the same with everything else.”
“Agriculture is for living; mind culture is for life. Skills are for shaping material things so that they cater more for the comfort of man; studies are for shaping attitudes, feelings, desires, emotions and impulses of man, so that they may confer more peace, more joy and more fortitude on man.”
“In business or in life, don't follow the wagon tracks too closely.”
“The things that one most wants to do are the things that are probably most worth doing.”
“Seeing death as the end of life is like seeing the horizon as the end of the ocean.”
“If we had a keen vision of all that is ordinary in human life, it would be like hearing the grass grow or the squirrel's heart beat, and we should die of that roar which is the other side of silence”
“There is great meaning in life for those who are willing to journey.”
“People are constantly clamoring for the joy of life. As for me, I find the joy of life in the hard and cruel battle of life - to learn something is a joy to me.”
“Write it on your heart that every day is the best day in the year.”
“Every man's life is a fairy tale written by God's fingers”
“The three main extra-rational activities in modern life are religion, war, and love; all these are extra-rational, but love is not anti-rational, that is to say, a reasonable man may reasonably rejoice in its existence”
“This has been my life. I have found it worth living, and would gladly live it again if the chance were offered me.”
“The purpose of life is to be defeated by greater and greater things”
“I can very well do without God both in my life and in my painting, but I cannot, suffering as I am, do without something which is greater than I am, which is my life, the power to create”
“The only purpose of education is to teach a student how to live his life-by developing his mind and equipping him to deal with reality. The training he needs is theoretical, i.e., conceptual. He has to be taught to think, to understand, to integrate, to prove. He has to be taught the essentials of the knowledge discovered in the past-and he has to be equipped to acquire further knowledge by his own effort.”
“For me, music and life are all about style.”
“It better befits a man to laugh at life than to lament over it”
“Thou wilt find rest from vain fancies if thou doest every act in life as though it were thy last.”
“I want to share something with you: The three little sentences that will get you through life. Number 1: Cover for me. Number 2: Oh, good idea, Boss! Number 3: It was like that when I got here.”
“You don't have to be married to have a good friend as your partner for life.”
“Life without goodness, good thoughts, good actions and good words is like the sky in the night without the moon or stars. It is like a wheel without a hub or spokes! No one can push a boulder away while standing on it; you cannot be free from anxiety while all the entrances through which it sneaks in are open.”
“Pain and death are part of life. To reject them is to reject life itself.”
“It is a very lonely life that a man leads, who becomes aware of truths before their times."”
“You cannot find peace by avoiding life.”
“When you arise in the morning, give thanks for the morning light, for your life and strength. Give thanks for your food, and the joy of living. If you see no reason for giving thanks, the fault lies with yourself.”
“You've got to have something to eat and a little love in your life before you can hold still for any damn body's sermon on how to behave.”
“Life has taught me that respect, caring and love must be shared, for it's only through sharing that friendships are born.”
“They can conquer who believe they can. He has not learned the first lesson in life who does not every day surmount a fear.”
“War is not a life: it is a situation, one which may neither be ignored nor accepted.”
“About all you can do in life is be who you are. Some people will love you for you. Most will love you for what you can do for them, and some won't like you at all.”
“It is curious - curious that physical courage should be so common in the world, and moral courage so rare”
“My life is my argument.”
“In the last analysis, the individual person is responsible for living his own life and for ''finding himself.'' If he persists in shifting his responsibility to somebody else, he fails to find out the meaning of his own existence.”
“The most exhausting thing in life is being insincere.”
“Change is not merely necessary to life – it is life.”
“Be such a man, and live such a life, that if every man were such as you, and every life a life like yours, this earth would be God's Paradise.”
“When I look back on all these worries, I remember the story of the old man who said on his deathbed that he had had a lot of trouble in his life, most of which had never happened”
“Without knowledge, life is no more than the shadow of death”
“This is the true joy in life, being used for a purpose recognized by yourself as a mighty one; being a force of nature instead of a feverish selfish little clod of ailments and grievances complaining that the world will not devote itself to making yo”
“The least of things with a meaning is worth more in life than the greatest of things without it.”
“Shrinking away from death is something unhealthy and abnormal which robs the second half of life of its purpose.”
“The only limits to the possibilities in your life tomorrow are the buts you use today.”
“In the end, the only events of my life worth telling are those when the imperishable world erupted into this transitory one… All other memories of travels, people and my surroundings have paled beside these interior happenings… But my encounters with the 'other' reality, my bouts with the unconscious, are indelibly engraved on my memory. In that realm there has always been wealth in abundance, and everything else has lost importance by comparison.”
“Life is only a dream and we are the imagination of ourselves.”
“What oxygen is to the lungs, such is hope to the meaning of life”
“Poverty is a lot like childbirth - you know it is going to hurt before it happens, but you'll never know how much until you experience it.”
“Loyalty to the country always. Loyalty to the government when it deserves it.”
“I may not lead the most dramatic life, but in my brain it's War and Peace everyday.”
“Why does this applied science, which saves work and makes life easier, bring us so little happiness? The simple answer runs: Because we have not yet learned to make sensible use of it.”
“To consider persons and events and situations only in the light of their effect upon myself is to live on the doorstep of hell”
“. . . full sexual consciousness and a natural regulation of sexual life mean the end of mystical feelings of any kind, that, in other words, natural sexuality is the deadly enemy of mystical religion. The church, by making the fight over sexuality the center of its dogmas and of its influence over the masses, confirms this concept.”
“Sometimes, if you stand on the bottom rail of a bridge and lean over to watch the river slipping slowly away beneath you, you will suddenly know everything there is to be known.”
“Life is a B Movie: it's stupid and it's strange, it's a directionless story, the dialogue is lame, but in the 'he said she said' sometimes there's some poetry, if you turn your back long enough and let it happen naturally.”
“In the total expanse of human life there is not a single square inch of which the Christ, who alone is sovereign,does not declare,'That is mine!'”
“Until we accept the fact that life itself is founded in mystery, we shall learn nothing.”
“When planning for a year, plant corn. When planning for a decade, plant trees. When planning for life, train and educate people.”
“The quality of a life is determined by its activities”
“Life has to be given a meaning because of the obvious fact that it has no meaning.”
“Life, like poker, has an element of risk. It shouldn't be avoided. It should be faced.”
“He who has a why to live can bear almost any how.”
“Oh, love is real enough; you will find it someday, but it has one archenemy - and that is life.”
“I did not direct my life. I didn't design it. I never made decisions. Things always came up and made them for me. That's what life is.”
“Friendship multiplies the good of life and divides the evil.”
“I'm the one that has to die when it's time for me to die, so let me live my life, the way I want to”
“If one's life is simple, contentment has to come. Simplicity is extremely important for happiness. Having few desires, feeling satisfied with what you have, is very vital: satisfaction with just enough food, clothing, and shelter to protect yourself from the elements. And finally, there is an intense delight in abandoning faulty states of mind and in cultivating helpful ones in meditation.”
“If we could read the secret history of our enemies, we should find in each man's life sorrow and suffering enough to disarm all hostility”
“If you do not change direction, you may end up where you are heading.”
“I hate life, I hate death and everything in between just doesn't interest me”
“Life is a continuous exercise in creative problem solving.”
“I don't work on a project unless I believe that it will dramatically improve life for a bunch of people.”
“Every life is its own excuse for being.”
“The demand that I make of my reader is that he should devote his whole Life to reading my works”
“It has been my philosophy of life that difficulties vanish when faced boldly”
“And above all things, never think that you're not good enough yourself. A man should never think that. My belief is that in life people will take you at your own reckoning”
“Life is difficult. This is the great truth, one of the greatest truths—it is a great truth because once we see this truth, we transcend it.”
“Life is not a problem - Life is the closest God has yet come to a solution”
“It's a troublesome world. All the people who're in it 
are troubled with troubles almost every minute. 
You ought to be thankful, a whole heaping lot,
for the places and people you're lucky you're not.”
“The purpose of art is washing the dust of daily life off our souls.”
“Character, in the long run, is the decisive factor in the life of an individual and of nations alike.”
“Circumstances are beyond human control, but our conduct is in our own power.”
“Rob the average man of his life-illusion and you rob him also of his happiness”
“Life is wasted on the living.”
“You shouldn't believe everything. What you see isn't always right. Is what you think truly right? Please, think about it again. A heart that obediently accepts things is fine, but shouldn't you question something just once? The truth is in a place you can't see.”
“Only those who have learned the power of sincere and selfless contribution experience life's deepest joy: true fulfillment.”
“The aim of life is to live, and to live means to be aware, joyously, drunkenly, serenely, divinely aware.”
“Hope deferred maketh the heart sick: but when the desire cometh, it is a tree of life (Proverbs 13:12).”
“Life is an unanswered question, but let's still believe in the dignity and importance of the question”
“It must be borne in mind that the tragedy of life does not lie in not reaching your goal. The tragedy of life lies in having no goal to reach.”
“Politics is for people who have a passion for changing life but lack a passion for living it”
“You've got to get to the stage in life where going for it is more important than winning or losing.”
“We do not own this place, we are just passengers”
“The best thing to give to your enemy is forgiveness; to an opponent, tolerance; to a friend, your heart; to your child, a good example; to a father, deference; to your mother, conduct that will make her proud of you; to yourself, respect; to all men, charity.”
“In my life there is an infinate supply of love, it is in exhastable, i can never use it all in this lifetime so i don't have to be sparing with it!”
“For the meaning of life differs from man to man, from day to day and from hour to hour. What matters, therefore, is not the meaning of life in general but rather the specific meaning of a person's life at a given moment.”
“You must be the change you wish to see in the world.”
“Every secret of a writer's soul, every experience of his life, every quality of his mind is written large in his works.”
“Life is the movie you see through your own eyes. It makes little difference what's happening out there. It's how you take it that counts.”
“One must chose in life between boredom and suffering”
“The god on the cross is a curse on life, a signpost to seek redemption from life; Dionysus cut to pieces is a promise of life: it will be eternally reborn and return again from destruction”
“Life obliges me to do something, so I paint”
“The supreme irony of life is that hardly anyone gets out of it alive.”
“The longest journey through life, is down the path that leads us Home.”
“Three things in human life are important: the first is to be kind; the second is to be kind; and the third is to be kind.”
“Those who are failures from the start, downtrodden, crushed -- it is they, the weakest, who must undermine life among men, who call into question and poison most dangerously our trust in life, in man, and in ourselves.”
“If I preach against the modern artificial life of sensual enjoyment, and ask men and women to go back to the simple life epitomized in the charkha, I do so because I know that without an intelligent return to simplicity, there is no escape from our d”
“God makes the best roller coasters.”
“As a general rule, the most successful man in life is the man who has the best information.”
“The key to life is accepting challenges. Once someone stops doing this, he's dead.”
“A baby is God's opinion that life should go on.”
“Enthusiasm is the most important thing in life”
“Whatever there be of progress in life comes not through adaptation but through daring, through obeying the blind urge”
“The life of a creator is not the only life nor perhaps the most interesting which a man leads. There is a time for play and a time for work, a time for creation and a time for lying fallow. And there is a time, glorious too in its own way, when one scarcely exists, when one is a complete void. I mean / when boredom seems the very stuff of life.”
“There is no such thing as sin. There is only life and anti-life.”
“The first forty years of life give us the text; the next thirty supply the commentary on it.”
“The expectations of life depend upon diligence; the mechanic that would perfect his work must first sharpen his tools.”
“There are things you just can't do in life. You can't beat the phone company, you can't make a waiter see you until he's ready to see you, and you can't go home again.”
“LIfe? LIfe? It's Death that makes life worth living for.”
“The tricky part of the human journey is to transform ourselves continually as our life directions change.”
“A library is not a luxury but one of the necessities of life.”
“If life was fair, Elvis would be alive and all the impersonators would be dead.”
“Welcome, O life! I go to encounter for the millionth time the reality of experience and to forge in the smithy of my soul the uncreated conscience of my race.”
“Man's real life is happy, chiefly because he is ever expecting that it soon will be so.”
“A life of reaction is a life of slavery, intellectually and spiritually. One must fight for a life of action, not reaction.”
“Life and Jah are one in the same. Jah is the gift of existence. I am in some way eternal, I will never be duplicated. The singularity of every man and woman is Jah's gift. What we struggle to make of it is our sole gift to Jah. The process of what th”
“When you turn your heart and your life over to Christ, when you accept Christ as the savior, it changes your heart.”
“If life is a bowl of cherries, then what am I doing in the pits?”
“A question that sometimes drives me hazy: am I or are the others crazy?”
“Do not take life too seriously; you will never get out of it alive”
“Life has no meaning the moment you lose the illusion of being eternal.”
“Life is an onion and one peels it crying”
“My life is very crazy and busy, but I love it that way.”
“There is no enlightenment outside of daily life.”
“A day without laughter is a day wasted.”
“Where is the Life we have lost in living?”
“Some people are born on third base and go through life thinking they hit a triple.”
“Our death is not an end if we can live on in our children and the younger generation. For they are us, our bodies are only wilted leaves on the tree of life.”
“A happy life must be to a great extent a quiet life, for it is only in an atmosphere of quiet that true joy dare live”
“Those who get lost on the way to school will never find their way through life”
“It's important for us to explain to our nation that life is important. It's not only life of babies, but it's life of children living in, you know, the dark dungeons of the Internet.”
“The unselfish effort to bring cheer to others will be the beginning of a happier life for ourselves”
“There are thoughts which are prayers. There are moments when, whatever the posture of the body, the soul is on its knees.”
“Sometimes life has a way of putting us on our backs to force us to look up.”
“True strength lies in submission which permits one to dedicate his life, through devotion, to something beyond himself.”
“What he had not learned, however, was this: to find contentment in himself and his own life”
“I have always looked upon decay as being just as wonderful and rich an expression of life as growth.”
“If life deals you lemons, why not go kill someone with the lemons (maybe by shoving them down his throat).”
“Treat a man as he is, and he will remain as he is. Treat a man as he could be, and he will become what he should be.”
“Those who contemplate the beauty of the earth find resources of strength that will endure as long as life lasts”
“There is a good side and a bad side to most people, and in accordance with your own character and disposition you will bring out one of them and the other will remain a sealed book to you”
“Going to trial with a lawyer who considers your whole life-style a Crime in Progress is not a happy prospect.”
“Every now and then when your life gets complicated and the weasels start closing in, the only cure is to load up on heinous chemicals and then drive like a bastard from Hollywood to Las Vegas ... with the music at top volume and at least a pint of ether.”
“The closing years of life are like the end of a masquerade party, when the masks are dropped.”
“All our dreams can come true...if we have the courage to pursue them.”
“If a man wishes to be sure of the road he treads on, he must close his eyes and walk in the dark.”
“Where there is love there is life.”
“You may forget the one with whom you have laughed, but never the one with whom you have wept.”
“The courage of life is often a less dramatic spectacle than the courage of a final moment; but it is no less a magnificent mixture of triumph and tragedy.”
“Genius develops in quiet places, character out in the full current of human life”
“Whatever relationships you have attracted in your life at this moment, are precisely the ones you need in your life at this moment. There is a hidden meaning behind all events, and this hidden meaning is serving your own evolution.”
“Every five years or so, I look back on my life and I have a good laugh.”
“At the bottom no one in life can help anyone else in life; this one experiences over and over in every conflict and every perplexity: that one is alone. That isn't as bad as it may first appear; and again it is the best thing in life that each should have everything in himself; his fate, his future, his whole expanse and world.”
“Sticks an' stones, love. I've saved your life an' you've saved mine. We're square.”
“A person's life is dyed with the color of his imagination.”
“How little it takes to make life unbearable: a pebble in the shoe, a cockroach in the spaghetti, a woman's laugh”
“A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast”
“Words can never adequately convey the incredible impact of our attitudes toward life. The longer I live the more convinced I become that life is 10 percent what happens to us and 90 percent how we respond to it.”
“Practice rather than preach. Make of your life an affirmation, defined by your ideals, not the negation of others. Dare to the level of your capability then go beyond to a higher level.”
“There are no mistakes. The events we bring upon ourselves, no matter how unpleasant, are necessary in order to learn what we need to learn; whatever steps we take, they're necessary to reach the places we've chosen to go.”
“The sin of pride may be a small or a great thing in someone's life, and hurt vanity a passing pinprick, or a self-destroying or ever murderous obsession.”
“I never felt settled or calm. You can't really commit to life when you feel that.”
“The life of the creative man is lead, directed and controlled by boredom. Avoiding boredom is one of our most important purposes.”
“The touch of an infinite mystery passes over the trivial and the familiar, making it break out into ineffable music... The trees, the stars, and the blue hills ache with a meaning which can never be uttered in words.”
“Death came very easily to her. She had lived such an innocent and loving life of service to others and held such a simple faith, that she had no fears at all and did not seem to mind very much.”
“We are all a little weird and life's a little weird, and when we find someone whose weirdness is compatible wth ours, we join up with them and fall in mutual weirdness and call it love.”
“America will tolerate the taking of a human life without giving it a second thought. But don't misuse a household pet.”
“Love is everything. It is the key to life, and its influences are those that move the world.”
“The truth is that life is delicious, horrible, charming, frightful, sweet, bitter, and that is everything.”
“The same stream of life that runs through my veins night and day runs through the world and dances in rhythmic measures.”
“A life lived with integrity - even if it lacks the trappings of fame and fortune is a shinning star in whose light others may follow in the years to come.”
“He who fears death has already lost the life he covets”
“Just as courage imperils life, fear protects it.”
“Take care to sell your horse before he dies. The art of life is passing losses on.”
“The worst enemy of life, freedom and the common decencies is total anarchy; their second worst enemy is total efficiency”
“Love's over brimming mystery joins death and life. It has filled my cup of pain with joy.”
“Without faith, hope and trust, there is no promise for the future, and without a promising future, life has no direction, no meaning and no justification.”
“For a person to build a rich and rewarding life for himself, there are certain qualities and bits of knowledge that he needs to acquire. There are also things, harmful attitudes, superstitions, and emotions that he needs to chip away. A person needs to chip away everything that doesn't look like the person he or she most wants to become.”
“So many people walk around with a meaningless life. They seem half-asleep, even when they're busy doing things they think are important. This is because they're chasing the wrong things. The way you get meaning into your life is to devote yourself to loving others, devote yourself to your community around you, and devote yourself to creating something that gives you purpose and meaning.”
“When life knocks you down you have two choices- stay down or get up.”
“Leadership offers an opportunity to make a difference in someone's life, no matter what the project.”
“The surest way to ruin a man who doesn't know how to handle money is to give him some.”
“Choice of attention - to pay attention to this and ignore that - is to the inner life what choice of action is to the outer. In both cases, a man is responsible for his choice and must accept the consequences, whatever they may be.”
“I would rather live and love where death is king than have eternal life where love is not.”
“It is only by risking our persons from one hour to another that we live at all.”
“If you could choose one characteristic that would get you through life, choose a sense of humor.”
“What makes life dreary is the want of a motive.”
“You can get through life with bad manners, but it's easier with good manners.”
“The pain that we cause is the cause of our pain.”
“If you want to know what life is like in the Soviet Union, go to your local department of motor vehicles”
“We sleep, but the loom of life never stops, and the pattern which was weaving when the sun went down is weaving when it comes up in the morning.”
“Never suffer an exception to occur till the new habit is securely rooted in your life. Each lapse is like the letting fall of a ball of string which one is carefully winding up; a single slip undoes more than a great many turns will wind again.”
“The poor don't know that their function in life is to exercise our generosity”
“A conviction of self-worth and passion for ideals fuse in a life attitude that is positive, free, noble and spiritually enhancing.”
“She realized as a girl of eight that if she sat down and wrote her stories, she could escape the parts of life she didn't like, embroider the parts she did and thus control the life she had.”
“If you can imagine it, you can achieve it; if you can dream it, you can become it.”
“All that we are is the result of what we have thought. If a man speaks or acts with an evil thought, pain follows him. If a man speaks or acts with a pure thought, happiness follows him, like a shadow that never leaves him.”
“I've always thought anyone can make money. Making a life worth living, that's the real test.”
“Play with life, laugh with life, dance lightly with life, and smile at the riddles of life, knowing that life’s only true lessons are writ small in the margin.”
“Life expectancy would grow by leaps and bounds if green vegetables smelled as good as bacon.”
“We cannot learn without pain”
“The married are those who have taken the terrible risk of intimacy and, having taken it, know life without intimacy to be impossible.”
“That young girl is one of the least benightedly unintelligent organic life forms it has been my profound lack of pleasure not to be able to avoid meeting.”
“It is too easy to make commentary on my life from your luxury box.”
“Ducking for apples - change one letter and it's the story of my life.”
“The pain we feel When someone leaves our life is in direct proportion to the joy they bring while a part of our life for a few moments. In my life you made me feel as if I truly meant something to someone”
“It is not the years in your life but the life in your years that counts”
“Photography takes an instant out of time, altering life by holding it still.”
“Someone has to die in order that the rest of us should value life more.”
“Don't judge each day by the harvest you reap but by the seeds that you plant.”
“Marriage is like life - it is a field of battle, not a bed of roses.”
“Love is a fruit in season at all times, and in reach of every hand.”
“Isn't life a series of images that change as they repeat themselves?”
“When I let go of what I am, I become what I might be”
“Life is partly what we make it, and partly what it is made by the friends we choose.”
“If today were the last day of my life, would I want to do what I am about to do today? And whenever the answer has been "No" for too many days in a row, I know I need to change something.”
“Those who hope for no other life are dead even for this”
“The contemplative life is often miserable. One must act more, think less, and not watch oneself live.”
“Shall we make a new rule of life from tonight: always try to be a little kinder than is necessary.”
“I gave my life to become the person I am right now. Was it worth it?”
“Our chief want in life is somebody who shall make us do what we can.”
“Joy, rather than happiness, is the goal of life, for joy is the emotion which accompanies our fulfilling our natures as human beings. It is based on the experience of one's identity as a being of worth and dignity.”
“I want to live my life, not record it.”
“It should be made clear that in order to live a Christian life, any Christian must be able to discriminate and hate, because that's what the bible says”
“The aim of every artist is to arrest motion, which is life, by artificial means and hold it fixed so that a hundred years later, when a stranger looks at it, it moves again since it is life.”
“Each person must live their life as a model for others.”
“A man who has never made a woman angry is a failure in life.”
“By medicine life may be prolonged, yet death will seize the doctor too.”
“False friendship, like the ivy, decays and ruins the walls it embraces; but true friendship gives new life and animation to the object it supports”
“Be thou the rainbow in the storms of life. The evening beam that smiles the clouds away, and tints tomorrow with prophetic ray.”
“Once you've wrestled, everything else in life is easy.”
“Following your passion is the best way to lead a fruitful life.”
“Our greatest glory is not in never falling but in rising every time we fall”
“Take away love and our earth is a tomb.”
“Love one person, take care of them until you die. You know, raise kids. Have a good life. Be a good friend. And try to be completely who you are. And figure out what you personally love. And like go after it with everything you've got no matter how much it takes.”
“Our life of poverty is as necessary as the work itself. Only in heaven will we see how much we owe to the poor for helping us to love God better because of them.”
“The point is not to take the world's opinion as a guiding star but to go one's way in life and working unerringly, neither depressed by failure nor seduced by applause.”
“Life is a constant oscillation between the sharp horns of dilemmas.”
“People will always say all sorts of stuff. Let them. I'm enjoying my life”
“Sometimes I wonder if suicides aren't in fact sad guardians of the meaning of life.”
“"You are the only person alive who has sole custody of your life ...
Your entire life ...
Not just the life of your mind, but the life of your heart.
Not just your bank account, but your soul."
~ Anna Quindlen”
“Life has no meaning the moment you lose the illusion of being eternal.”
“If you have the desire, passion and enthusiasm to do something, nothing in the world will stop you.”
“The jury, passing on the prisoner's life, may in the sworn twelve have a thief or two guiltier than him they try”
“I guess sometimes the ground can shift between your feet. Sometimes your footing slips. You stumble. And sometimes you grab what's close to you and hold on as tight as you can.”
“When you're finished changing, you're finished.”
“Life is 10 percent what you make it, and 90 percent how you take it.”
“There's no tragedy in life like the death of a child. Things never get back to the way they were.”
“A faithful friend is the medicine of life”
“We have the duty to protect the life of an unborn child.”
“He who fears death enjoys not life”
“The indispensable first step to getting the things you want out of life is this: Decide what you want.”
“Our sense of community and compassionate intelligence must be extended to all life forms, plants, animals, rocks, rivers, and human beings. This is the story of our past and it will be the story of our future.”
“Life is one fool thing after another whereas love is two fool things after each other.”
“The man of upright life is obeyed before he speaks”
“If you spend your whole life waiting for the storm, you'll never enjoy the sunshine.”
“You have the need and the right to spend part of your life caring for your soul. It is not easy. You have to resist the demands of the work-oriented, often defensive, element in your psyche that measures life only in terms of output -- how much you produce -- not in terms of the quality of your life experiences. To be a soulful person means to go against all the pervasive, prove-yourself values of our culture and instead treasure what is unique and internal and valuable in yourself and your own personal evolution.”
“The voice of life in me cannot reach the ear of life in you; but let us talk that we may not feel lonely.”
“It is not what we get. But who we become, what we contribute... that gives meaning to our lives.”
“The warrior's approach is to say "yes" to life: "yea" to it all.”
“I travel a lot; I hate having my life disrupted by routine.”
“During the first period of a man's life the greatest danger is not to take the risk. When once the risk has really been taken, then the greatest danger is to risk too much.”
“Mom and Dad say I should make my life an example of the principles I believe in. But every time I do, they tell me to stop it.”
“Every woman needs one man in her life who is strong and responsible. Given this security, she can proceed to do what she really wants to do-fall in love with men who are weak and irresponsible.”
“Being considerate of others will take your children further in life than any college degree.”
“I have frequently been questioned, especially by women, of how I could reconcile family life with a scientific career. Well, it has not been easy.”
“Raising children is an uncertain thing; success is reached only after a life of battle and worry”
“Life is a wonderful thing to talk about, or to read about in history books - but it is terrible when one has to live it”
“What do you first do when you learn to swim? You make mistakes, do you not? And what happens? You make other mistakes, and when you have made all the mistakes you possibly can without drowning - and some of them many times over - what do you find? That you can swim? Well - life is just the same as learning to swim! Do not be afraid of making mistakes, for there is no other way of learning how to live!”
“Success in life comes not from holding a good hand, but in playing a poor hand well.”
“The meaning I picked, the one that changed my life: Overcome fear, behold wonder.”
“Life can be wildly tragic at times, and I've had my share. But whatever happens to you, you have to keep a slightly comic attitude. In the final analysis, you have got not to forget to laugh.”
“In life, as in chess, forethought wins.”
“LET GO OF THE PAST! For the past is not holding on to you, you're the one holding on to it.”
“A hidden connection is stronger than an obvious one.”
“Death is one moment, and life is so many of them”
“When life is victorious, there is birth; when it is thwarted, there is death. A warrior is always engaged in a life-and-death struggle for Peace.”
“It's only when we truly know and understand that we have a limited time on earth - and that we have no way of knowing when our time is up, we will then begin to live each day to the fullest, as if it was the only one we had.”
“The mantra becomes one's staff of life and carries one through every ordeal. Each repetition has a new meaning, carrying you nearer and nearer to God.”
“In dwelling, live close to the ground. In thinking, keep to the simple. In conflict, be fair and generous. In governing, don't try to control. In work, do what you enjoy. In family life, be completely present.”
“I think a man and a woman should choose each other for life, for the simple reason that a long life with all its accidents is barely enough for a man and a woman to understand each other; and in this case to understand is to love.”
“Hear my voice, O God, in my prayer: preserve my life from fear of the enemy. (Psalms 64:1)”
“Taking shelter in the dead is death itself, and only taking all the risk of life to the fullest extent is living.”
“In life, you'll have your back up against the wall many times. You might as well get used to It.”
“True virtue is life under the direction of reason”
“Life is also a mixture of unsolved problems, ambiguous victories and vague defeats-with very few moments of clear peace.”
“Paganism is wholesome because it faces the facts of life.”
“My choice early in life was either to be a piano-player in a whorehouse or a politician. And to tell the truth, there's hardly any difference.”
“But life is long. And it is the long run that balances the short flare of interest and passion.”
“Who wants to live to be a hundred? What's the point of it? A short life and a merry one is far better than a long life sustained by fear, caution and perpetual medical surveillance”
“I believe you can have whatever you really want in this life, in one form or another, sooner or later. All you have to do is take care of your health and be lucky enough to live for a while. But you can't have it all at once and you can't have it forever. No life has the room for everything in it, not on the same day.”
“Let the public mind become corrupt, and all efforts to secure property, liberty, or life by the force of laws written on paper will be as vain as putting up a sign in an apple orchard to exclude canker worms.”
“He only earns his freedom and his life Who takes them every day by storm.”
“I can do everything with ease on the stage, whereas in real life I feel too big and clumsy. So I didn't choose acting. It chose me.”
“The choicest pleasures of life lie within the ring of moderation.”
“It's easy to let life deteriorate into making a living instead of making a life. It's not the hours you put in, but what you out into the hours that count. Learn to express rather than impress. Expressing evokes a ''me too'' attitude while impressing evokes a ''so what'' attitude.”
“Science is organized knowledge. Wisdom is organized life.”
“The most important thing in life is to see to it that you are never beaten”
“At the core of life is a hard purposefulness, a determination to live.”
“I've been getting rid of some clutter — anything that doesn't serve a positive purpose in my life — and making room for things that feel happy to me. Because I get to make my life whatever I want it to be. I get to make the room feel however I want it to feel. I get to make the closet as full or as spacious as I want it. And, if I have more clutter to get rid of after Christmas, I'm not going to wait a year, or two or three to do it.”
“As crude a weapon as the cave man's club, the chemical barrage has been hurled against the fabric of life”
“Life is tragic simply because the earth turns and the sun inexorably rises and sets, and one day, for each of us, the sun will go down for the last, last time.”
“Every person's life is theirs by right. An individuals life can and must only belong to himself, no to any society or community, or he is then but a slave. No one can deny another person their right to their life, nor seize by force what is produced by someone else, because that is stealing their means to sustain their life. It is treason against mankind to hold a knife to a man's throat and dictate how he must live his life. No society is more important than the individuals who compose it, or else you ascribe supreme importance, not to man, but to any notion that strikes the fantasy of that society at a never ending cost of lives. Reason and reality are the only means to just laws; mindles wishes, if given sovereignty, become deadly masters.”
“Opposition is a natural part of life. Just as we develop our physical muscles through overcoming opposition - such as lifting weights - we develop our character muscles by overcoming challenges and adversity.”
“Whether they find a life there or not, I think Jupiter should be called an enemy planet.”
“People who love only once in their lives are. . . shallow people. What they call their loyalty, and their fidelity, I call either the lethargy of custom or their lack of imagination.”
“He is blessed over all mortals who loses no moment of the passing life in remembering the past”
“How wrong it is for a woman to expect the man to build the world she wants, rather than to create it herself.”
“Whatever there be of progress in life comes not through adaptation but through daring...”
“Plots and character don't make life. Life is here and now, anytime you say the word, anytime you let her rip.”
“Music is essentially useless, as is life”
“I have three phobias which, could I mute them, would make my life as slick as a sonnet, but as dull as ditch water: I hate to go to bed, I hate to get up, and I hate to be alone.”
“Home life as we understand it is no more natural to us than a cage is natural to a cockatoo”
“Life is short. Time is fleeting. Realize the Self. Purity of the heart is the gateway to God. Aspire. Renounce. Meditate. Be good; do good. Be kind; be compassionate. Inquire, know Thyself.”
“Judgments, value judgments concerning life, for or against, can in the last resort never be true: they possess value only as symptoms, they come into consideration only as symptoms - in themselves such judgments are stupidities”
“What each must seek in his life never was on land or sea. It is something out of his own unique potentiality for experience, something that never has been and never could have been experienced by anyone else.”
“Live life to the fullest.”
“I decided to devote my life to telling the story because I felt that having survived I owe something to the dead. and anyone who does not remember betrays them again.”
“There comes that mysterious meeting in life when someone acknowledges who we are and what we can be, igniting the circuits of our highest potential.”
“Life will not break your heart. It'll crush it.”
“Life, misfortunes, isolation, abandonment, poverty, are battlefields which have their heroes; obscure heroes, sometimes greater than the illustrious heroes”
“The source of all life and knowledge is in man and woman, and the source of all living is in the interchange and the meeting and mingling of these two: man-life and woman-life, man-knowledge and woman-knowledge, man-being and woman-being.”
“Think positively and masterfully, with confidence and faith, and life becomes more secure, more fraught with action, richer in achievement and experience.”
“Green Eggs and Ham was the story of my life. I wouldn't eat a thing when I was a kid, but Dr. Suess inspired me to try cauliflower.”
“A house full of condiments and no real food.”
“A man should control his life. Mine is controlling me.”
“Life is about not knowing, having to change, taking the moment and making the best of it, without knowing what's going to happen next.”
“A child can go only so far in life without potty training. It is not mere coincidence that six of the last seven presidents were potty trained, not to mention nearly half of the nation's state legislators.”
“The greatest humiliation in life, is to work hard on something from which you expect great appreciation, and then fail to get it”
“I've been drunk only once in my life. But that lasted for twenty-three years.”
“An old man who cannot bid farewell to life appears as feeble and sickly as a young man who is unable to embrace it.”
“Here dead lie we because we did not choose to live and shame the land from which we sprung. Life, to be sure, is nothing much to lose; but young men think it is, and we were young.”
“Don't be a spectator, don't let life pass you by.”
“A typical day in the life of a heavy metal musician consists of a round of golf and an AA meeting.”
“You learned the two greatest thing in life, never rat on your friends, and always keep your mouth shut.”
“Life isn't one damn thing after another. It's the same damn thing again and again.”
“There's nothing more ironic or contradictory than life itself.”
“Life is full of risks anyway, why not take them?”
“Courage is nothing less than the power to overcome danger, misfortune, fear, injustice, while continuing to affirm inwardly that life with all its sorrows is good; that everything is meaningful even if in a sense beyond our understanding; and that th”
“I have a simple life. I mean, you just give me a drum roll, they announce my name, and I come out and sing. In my job I have a contract that says I'm a singer. So I sing.”
“Fashion is as profound and critical a part of the social life of man as sex, and is made up of the same ambivalent mixture of irresistible urges and inevitable taboos.”
“It boggles my mind that someone can see life breathed into a baby, watch the grass die and then come to life again, see leaves fall and watch the rebirth of a tree, or gaze on any of the majestic splendor that is this earth and not be overpowered by the presence of an Almighty God!”
“Censorship in any form is the enemy of creativity, since it cuts off the life blood of creativity: ideas.”
“Chess is life.”
“Life itself is the most wonderful fairy tale.”
“I'm passionately involved in life: I love its change, its color, its movement. To be alive, to be able to see, to walk, to have houses, music, paintings - it's all a miracle.”
“Thing is, it's very easy to be righteous from a distance. It's his life. It's not my business to say what is wrong or right.”
“There are only three things women need in life: food, water, and compliments.”
“Life barrels on like a runaway train where the passengers change, they don't change anything, you get off someone else can get on.”
“Life. A spiritual pickle preserving the body from decay.”
“To attain inner peace you must actually give your life, not just your possessions. When you at last give your life - bringing into alignment your beliefs and the way you live then, and only then, can you begin to find inner peace.”
“Every vital organization owes its birth and life to an exciting and daring idea.”
“To be sensual, I think, is to respect and rejoice in the force of life, of life itself, and to be present in all that one does, from the effort of loving to the making of bread.”
“There is no such thing in anyone's life as an unimportant day.”
“you don't always have to convince people to be on your side, sometimes you have to confuse them instead.”
“Don't tell God how big your problem is. Tell your problem how big God is.”
“Anyone who doesn't take truth seriously in small matters cannot be trusted in large ones either.”
“To grasp the full significance of life is the actor's duty, to interpret it is his problem, and to express it his dedication.”
“There is not a particle of life which does not bear poetry within it”
“There's always some aftermath, good and bad, makes-me-happy or makes-me-unhappy, for anything we choose to do.”
“People do not seem to realize that their opinion of the world is also a confession of character.”
“We can choose to throw stones,
to stumble on them,
to climb over them,
or to build with them.”
“The very contradictions in my life are in some ways signs of God's mercy to me.”
“In our music, in our everyday life, there are so many negative things. Why not have something positive and stamp it with blackness?”
“Dreams are, by definition, cursed with short life spans”
“We are the living links in a life force that moves and plays around and through us, binding the deepest soils with the farthest stars.”
“The God who gave us life gave us liberty at the same time; the hand of force may destroy, but cannot disjoin them.”
“I am sometimes disappointed, but I love my life ... and I must believe that the disappointments contribute something to what I love.”
“To be what we are, and to become what we are capable of becoming is the only end of life.”
“Books are good enough in their own way, but they are a mighty bloodless substitute for life”
“There is an ecstasy that marks the summit of life, and beyond which life cannot rise. And such is the paradox of living, this ecstasy comes when one is most alive, and it comes as a complete forgetfulness that one is alive.”
“Probably the happiest period in life most frequently is in middle age, when the eager passions of youth are cooled, and the infirmities of age not yet begun; as we see that the shadows, which are at morning and evening so large, almost entirely disappear at midday.”
“I think of those who were truly great. The names of those who in their lives fought for life, Who wore at their hearts the fire's center.”
“Is this not the true romantic feeling; not to desire to escape life, but to prevent life from escaping you.”
“I suppose, in a way, this has become part of my soul. It is a symbol of my life. Whatever I have done that really matters, I've done wearing it. When the time comes, it will be in this that I journey forth. What greater honor could come to an American, and a soldier?”
“Life is a jest; and all things show it. I thought so once; but now I know it.”
“If somebody makes me laugh, I'm his slave for life.”
“Language is power, life and the instrument of culture, the instrument of domination and liberation”
“Change is a welcomed friend...but only if it is invited.”
“I have not been animated in my life to fight against race and sex discrimination simply because of my own identity. That would mean that one must be South African to fight apartheid, or a poor white in Appalachia to fight poverty, or Jewish to fight anti-Semitism. And I just reject that conception of how struggles should be waged.”
“A diplomat's life is made up of three ingredients: protocol, Geritol and alcohol.”
“One cannot live faithfully and give up what has given meaning and purpose to one's entire life.”
“Life without a purpose is a languid, drifting thing; every day we ought to review our purpose, saying to ourselves, 'This day let me make a sound beginning, for what we have hitherto done is naught!'”
“Advertising is the life of trade.”
“When I consider this carefully, I find not a single property which with certainty separates the waking state from the dream. How can you be certain that your whole life is not a dream?”
“Remember the great adversity of art or anything else is a hurried life.”
“No matter what age you are, or what your circumstances might be, you are special, and you still have something unique to offer. Your life, because of who you are, has meaning.”
“I balanced all, brought all to mind, the years to come seemed waste of breath, a waste of breath the years behind, in balance with this life, this death.”
“The length of your education is less important than its breadth, and the length of your life is less important than its depth”
“There's one sad truth in life I've found
While journeying east and west -
The only folks we really wound
Are those we love the best.”
“Smile. You might be happier than you think.”
“The quality of life is more important than life itself”
“I think computer viruses should count as life. I think it says something about human nature that the only form of life we have created so far is purely destructive. We've created life in our own image.”
“Hugs are part of everybody life for me. I’ll hug all sorts of people- I don’t worry about it looking unmanly or whatever. I think physical human contact is one of the things that makes living worthwhile.”
“The gaurdian angels of life sometimes fly so high as to be beyond our sight, but they are always looking down upon us.”
“It is not reason which makes faith hard, but life.”
“The man who radiates good cheer, who makes life happier wherever he meets it, is always a man of vision and faith.”
“When you are afraid to act for fear of being wrong, then you have ignored the chance of doing right.”
“All my life people have said that I wasn't going to make it.”
“ I am here to seduce you into a love of life; to help you to become a little more poetic; to help you die to the mundane and to the ordinary so that the extraordinary explodes in your life. ”
“To express unafraid and unashamed what one really thinks and feels is one of the great consolations of life”
“Without realizing it, the individual composes his life according to the laws of beauty even in times of greatest distress.”
“I shall be telling this with a sigh - Somewhere ages and ages hence: Two roads diverged in a wood, and I - I took the one less traveled by, And that has made all the difference”
“Success is not a harbor but a voyage with its own perils to the spirit. The game of life is to come up a winner, to be a success, or to achieve what we set out to do.”
“An apology might help, but you can change your life without one.”
“But better die than live mechanically a life that is a repetition of repetitions.”
“The riches of life, the love and joy and exhilaration of life can be found only with an upward look. This is an exciting world. It's cram-packed with opportunity. Great moments wait around every corner.”
“You block your dream when you allow your fear to grow bigger than your faith.”
“Vitam Impendere Vero (I consecrate my life to truth).”
“The world is full of abundance and opportunity, but far too many people come to the fountain of life with a sieve instead of a tank car… a teaspoon instead of a steam shovel. They expect little and as a result they get little.”
“People have to really suffer before they can risk doing what they love.”
“A man who dares to waste one hour of time has not discovered the value of life.”
“The nation needs to return to the colonial way of life, when a wife was judged by the amount of wood she could split.”
“Fiction is life with the dull bits left out”
“In civilized life, law floats in a sea of ethics.”
“Life is fury, he'd thought. Fury — sexual, Oedipal, political, magical, brutal — drives us to our finest heights and coarsest depths. Out of furia comes creation, inspiration, originality, passion, but also violence, pain, pure unafraid destruction, the giving and receiving of blows from which we never recover. The Furies pursue us; Shiva dances his furious dance to create and also to destroy. But never mind about gods! Sara ranting at him represented the human spirit in its purest, least socialized form. This is what we are, what we civilize ourselves to disguise — the terrifying human animal in us, the exalted, transcendent, self-destructive, untramelled lord of creation.”
“However confused the scene of our life appears, however torn we may be who now do face that scene, it can be faced, and we can go on to be whole.”
“It's best to have failure happen early in life. It wakes up the Phoenix bird in you so you rise from the ashes.”
“In these days, it is doubtful that any child may reasonably be expected to succeed in life if he is denied the opportunity of an education.”
“Old age is just a record of one's whole life.”
“The origin of the absurd idea of immortal life is easy to discover; it is kept alive by hope and fear, by childish faith, and by cowardice”
“Life is very short and there's no time, for fussing and fighting my friend. I have always thought that it's a crime, so I will ask you once again: try to see it my way, only time will tell if I am right or I am wrong. While you see it your way, there's a chance that we might fall apart before too long. We can work it out.”
“Our Lord did not try to alter circumstances. He submitted to them. They shaped his life and eventually brought him to Calvary. I believe we miss opportunities and lovely secrets our Lord is waiting to teach us by not taking what comes.”
“You may fool all the people some of the time, you can even fool some of the people all of the time, but you cannot fool all of the people all the time.”
“It is humankind's duty to respect all life, not only animals have feelings but even also trees and plants”
“There are many spokes on the wheel of life. First, we're here to explore new possibilities.”
“The most difficult thing in life is to know yourself.”
“I pattern my actions and life after what I want. No two people are alike. You might admire attributes in others, but use these only as a guide in improving yourself in your own unique way. I don't go for carbon copies. Individualism is sacred!”
“Why don't they knead two virtuous souls for life / Into that moral centaur, man and wife?”
“"as i look back...over my life...i am struck by post cards...ruined snapshots...faded posters...of a time..i can't recall”
“That's the secret to life... replace one worry with another....”
“Before we can study the central issues of life today, we must destroy the prejudices and fallacies born of previous centuries”
“Never become so much of an expert that you stop gaining expertise. View life as a continuous learning experience.”
“Smile, save people from grumpiness.”
“People fear death even more than pain. It's strange that they fear death. Life hurts a lot more than death. At the point of death, the pain is over. Yeah, I guess it is a friend...”
“Most people think life sucks, and then you die. Not me. I beg to differ. I think life sucks, then you get cancer, then your dog dies, your wife leaves you, the cancer goes into remission, you get a new dog, you get remarried, you owe ten million dollars in medical bills but you work hard for thirty-five years and you pay it back and then -- one day -- you have a massive stroke, your whole right side is paralyzed, you have to limp along the streets and speak out of the left side of your mouth and drool but you go into rehabilitation and regain the power to walk and the power to talk and then -- one day -- you step off a curb at Sixty-seventh Street, and BANG you get hit by a city bus and then you die. Maybe.”
“Nobody deserves to have their personal life pried into like I did and no one deserves to hear me whine about it so much.”
“The reason why the universe is eternal is that it does not live for itself; it gives life to others as it transforms”
“You don't choose your family. They are God's gift to you, as you are to them.”
“As in private life one differentiates between what a man thinks and says of himself and what he really is and does, so in historical struggles one must still more distinguish the language and the imaginary aspirations of parties from their real organism and their real interests, their conception of themselves from their reality.”
“The life of our city is rich in poetic and marvelous subjects. We are enveloped and steeped as though in an atmosphere of the marvelous; but we do not notice it.”
“If your energy is as boundless as your ambition, total commitment may be a way of life you should seriously consider.”
“Neither the life of an individual nor the history of a society can be understood without understanding both.”
“It is better to be hated for what you are than to be loved for something you are not.”
“If life is a book we write, it should be a book of dreams. And even if they don’t all come true, at least the story will still be amazing.”
“Work is life, you know, and without it, there's nothing but fear and insecurity.”
“Courage allows the successful woman to fail-
and learn powerful lessons-
from the failure-
so that in the end,
she didn't fail at all.”
“If I had to live my life over again, I would have a different father, a different wife and a different religion.”
“Destiny itself is like a wonderful wide tapestry in which every thread is guided by an unspeakably tender hand, placed beside another thread and held and carried by a hundred others.”
“Your greatest self has been waiting your whole life; don't make it wait any longer.”
“Faith is the centerpiece of a connected life. It allows us to live by the grace of invisible strands. It is a belief in a wisdom superior to our own. Faith becomes a teacher in the absence of fact.”
“Can't nothing make your life work if you ain't the architect.”
“Music is love, love is music, music is my life and I love my life. Thank you and goodnight.”
“I have no regrets. I wouldn't have lived my life the way I did if I was going to worry about what people were going to say.”
“May you live your life as if the maxim of your actions were to become universal law.”
“Life has always taken place in a tumult without apparent cohesion, but it only finds its grandeur and its reality in ecstasy and in ecstatic love.”
“i can be changed by what happens to me. but i refuse to be reduced by it.”
“I have had a wonderful life. I have never regretted what I did. I regret things I didn't do. All my life I've done things at a moment's notice. Those are the things I remember. I was given courage, a sense of adventure and a little bit of humor. I don't think anyone has the right to intrude in your life, but they do. I would like people to separate the actress and the woman.”
“The care of human life and happiness and not their destruction is the first and only legitimate object of good government.”
“One of my big fears in life is that I'm gonna die and my parents are going to come to clean out my apartment and find that porno wing I've been adding on to for years.”
“When it's time to die, let us not discover that we have never lived.”
“It's not what we eat but what we digest that makes us strong; not what we gain but what we save that makes us rich; not what we read but what we remember that makes us learned; and not what we profess but what we practice that gives us integrity.”
“Conservation and rural-life policies are really two sides of the same policy; and down at bottom this policy rests upon the fundamental law that neither man nor nation can prosper unless, in dealing with the present, thought is steadily taken for th”
“I've discovered as I've grown up that life is far more complicated than you think it is when you're a kid. It isn't just a straightforward fairytale.”
“You give me fresh life and vigour. Adieu to disappointment and spleen. What are men to rocks and mountains? Oh! what hours of transport we shall spend! And when we do return, it shall not be like other travelers, without being able to give one accurate idea of any thing. We will know where we have gone – we will recollect what we have seen. Lakes, mountains, and rivers shall not be jumbled together in our imaginations; nor when we attempt to describe any particular scene, will we begin quarrelling about its relative situation. Let our first effusions be less insupportable than those of the generality of travelers.”
“The whole problem with the world is that fools and fanatics are always so certain of themselves, but wiser people so full of doubts.”
“You can't blame gravity for falling in love.”
“The best way to find yourself is to lose yourself in the service of others.”
“Whenever our life is stirred by truth, it expresses energy and comes to be filled, as it were, with a creative ardor. This consciousness of the creative urge is evidence of the force of truth on our mind.”
“It pays no matter what comes after it, to try and do things, to accomplish things in this life and not merely to have a soft and pleasant time.”
“Love comes when manipulation stops; when you think more about the other person than about his or her reactions to you. When you dare to reveal yourself fully. When you dare to be vulnerable.”
“He had a theory, Walt did, that the religious life, and all the agony that goes with it, is just something God sics on people who have the gall to accuse Him of having created an ugly world.”
“The tragedy of human life consists in our vain attempts to stretch the limits of things which can never become unlimited, to reach the infinite by absurdly adding to the rungs of the ladder of the finite.”
“Man is immortal; therefore he must die endlessly. For life is a creative idea; it can only find itself in changing forms”
“There are three things in life which are real: God, human folly, and laughter. The first two are beyond our comprehension so we must do what we can with the third.”
“Always wear a smile. The gift of life will then be yours to give.”
“In order to have friends, you must first be one.”
“Study nature, love nature, stay close to nature. It will never fail you.”
“Into each life some rain must fall.”
“This life is not for complaint, but for satisfaction”
“There is a great deal of pain in life and perhaps the only pain that can be avoided is the pain that comes from trying to avoid pain.”
“Develop an interest in life as you see it; the people, things, literature, music-the world is so rich, simply throbbing with rich treasures, beautiful souls and interesting people. Forget yourself.”
“You can't do anything about the length of your life, but you can do something about its width and depth”
“Every man is thoroughly happy twice in his life: just after he has met his first love, and just after he has left his last one”
“A news sense is really a sense of what is important, what is vital, what has color and life - what people are interested in. That's journalism.”
“I don't bring God into my life to - to, you know, kind of be a political person.”
“My one purpose in life is to help people find a personal relationship with God, which, I believe, comes through knowing Christ.”
“Rumours have a rich sex life”
“A broom is drearily sweeping, up the broken peices of yesterdays life. Somewhere a queen is weeping, Somewhere a king has no wife, And the wind cries Mary.”
“GOD is to be worshipped as the one beloved, dearer than everything in this and next life.”
“I assume that to prevent illness in later life, you should never have been born at all.”
“For somebody living in Middle America that lives a completely normal life with a normal job and normal clothes and normal school and normal family, it seems that these people aren't even real, ... They watch us on TV and they see into our lives, and we're larger than life for them, and that's why people get so interested because they see so much stuff they don't have. The whole lifestyle and living in L.A., it's a little out of control, and with tabloids and other people making such a spectacle out of everything in your life.”
“Loss and possession, death and life are one, There falls no shadow where there shines no sun.”
“Fully 57 percent of American college students are women. Life insurance companies sell more policies to women than to men. As women continue to draw on experience and education, they're accelerating their numbers in upper management, too.”
“I didn't fully realize it at the time, but the goal of my life was profoundly molded by this experience - to help produce, in the next generation, more Mother Teresas and less Hitlers.”
“The only thing I regret about my past is the length of it. If I had to live my life again I'd make all the same mistakes - only sooner.”
“There are certain queer times and occasions in this strange mixed affair we call life when a man takes his whole universe for a vast practical joke”
“The momentous thing in human life is the art of winning the soul to good or evil.”
“If you haven't the strength to impose your own terms upon life, you must accept the terms it offers you.”
“Searching is half the fun: life is much more manageable when thought of as a scavenger hunt as opposed to a surprise party.”
“The best thing to hold onto in life is each other.”
“Wherever life takes us, there are always moments of wonder.”
“You spend a good piece of your life gripping a baseball and in the end it turns out that it was the other way around all the time.”
“People who say that life is not worthwhile are really saying that they themselves have no personal goals which are worthwhile. Get yourself a goal worth working for. Better still, get yourself a project. Always have something ahead of you to ''look forward to'' / to work for and hope for.”
“The only thing that makes life possible is permanent, intolerable uncertainty; not knowing what comes next.”
“He lives most life whoever breathes most air.”
“You can have anything you want in life if you dress for it.”
“The motivating force of the theory of a Democratic way of life is still a belief that as individuals we live cooperatively, and, to the best of our ability, serve the community in which we live, and that our own success, to be real, must contribute t”
“One makes mistakes; that is life. But it is never a mistake to have loved.”
“The goal is to live a full, productive life even with all that ambiguity. No matter what hap- pens, whether the cancer never flares up again or whether you die, the important thing is that the days that you have had you will have lived.”
“Immortal mortals, mortal immortals, one living the others death and dying the others life.”
“If our colleges and universities do not breed men who riot, who rebel, who attack life with all the youthful vim and vigor, then there is something wrong with our colleges. The more riots that come on college campuses, the better world for tomorrow.”
“The life of a man consists not in seeing visions and in dreaming dreams, but in active charity and in willing service”
“But the only things that interrupted our happy family life came out there on the field, injuries and accidents and sickness, as the boys gave it all they had.”
“All my life I believed I knew something. But then one strange day came when I realized that I knew nothing, yes, I knew nothing. And so words became void of meaning. I have arrived too late at ultimate uncertainty.”
“For books are more than books, they are the life, the very heart and core of ages past, the reason why men lived and worked and died, the essence and quintessence of their lives.”
“The Great Black Things that have loomed against the horizon of my life, threatening to devour me, simply loomed and nothing more. The things that have really made me miss my train have always been sweet, soft, pretty, pleasant things of which I was n”
“In the investigation of a neurotic style of life, we must always suspect an opponent, and note who suffers most because of the patient's condition. Usually this is a member of the family.”
“Superstition, bigotry and prejudice, ghosts though they are, cling tenaciously to life; they are shades armed with tooth and claw. They must be grappled with unceasingly, for it is a fateful part of human destiny that it is condemned to wage perpetual war against ghosts. A shade is not easily taken by the throat and destroyed.”
“We have lost the art of living, and in the most important science of all, the science of daily life, the science of behavior, we are complete ignoramuses. We have psychology instead.”
“Time should make enemies and Life should make friends.”
“I believe that a man is converted when first he hears the low, vast murmur of life, of human life, troubling his hitherto unconscious self.”
““Only as a warrior can one withstand the path of knowledge. A warrior cannot complain or regret anything. His life is an endless challenge, and challenges cannot possibly be good or bad. Challenges are simply challenges.””
“In the attempt to defeat death man has been inevitably obliged to defeat life, for the two are inextricably related. Life moves on to death, and to deny one is to deny the other.”
“I don't need drugs to make my life tragic”
“A healthy social life is found only, when in the mirror of each soul the whole community finds its reflection, and when in the whole community the virtue of each one is living”
“Fun is like life insurance; the older you get, the more it costs.”
“Being a runner means you are now "free" to win and lose and live life to its fullest.”
“If nature were not beautiful, it would not be worth knowing, and if nature were not worth knowing, life would not be worth living”
“Now that I look back, I realize that a life predicated on being obedient and taking orders is a very comfortable life indeed. Living in such a way reduces to a minimum one's need to think.”
“The chief condition on which, life, health and vigor depend on, is action. It is by action that an organism develops its faculties, increases its energy, and attains the fulfillment of its destiny.”
“Live all you can; it's a mistake not to. It doesn't so much matter what you do in particular, so long as you have your life. If you haven't had that what have you had?”
“A baby is God's opinion that life should go on. Never will a time come when the most marvelous recent invention is as marvelous as a newborn baby. The finest of our precision watches, the most super-colossal of our supercargo planes don't compare with a newborn baby in the number and ingenuity of coils and springs, in the flow and change of chemical solutions, in timing devises and interrelated parts that are irreplaceable.”
“We do not remember days, we remember moments. The richness of life lies in memories we have forgotten.”
“Even a happy life cannot be without a measure of darkness, and the word happy would lose its meaning if it were not balanced by sadness. It is far better take things as they come along with patience and equanimity.”
“There are few hours in life more agreeable than the hour dedicated to the ceremony known as afternoon tea”
“Imagination, the supreme delight of the immortal and the immature, should be limited. In order to enjoy life, we should not enjoy it too much.”
“I never made a mistake in grammar but one in my life and as soon as I done it I seen it.”
“Let us be true: this is the highest maxim of art and of life, the secret of eloquence and of virtue, and of all moral authority”
“Anyone who spends their life on a computer is pretty unusual.”
“Life is full of endless possibilities.”
“What is drama but life with the dull bits cut out”
“For me, the backdrop of half the experiences of life includes music.”
“The consuming desire of most human beings is deliberately to plant their whole life in the hands of some other person. I would describe this method of searching for happiness as immature. Development of character consists solely in moving toward self-sufficiency.”
“In life there are no winners, only assholes with Swiss Bank Accounts.”
“For me, the cinema is not a slice of life, but a piece of cake.”
“The moment in between what you once were, and who you are now becoming, is where the dance of life really takes place.”
“Fiction is like a spider's web, attached ever so lightly perhaps, but still attached to life at all four corners. Often the attachment is scarcely perceptible.”
“The interest in life does not lie in what people do, nor even in their relations to each other, but largely in the power to communicate with a third party, antagonistic, enigmatic, yet perhaps persuadable, which one may call life in general.”
“This soul, or life within us, by no means agrees with the life outside us. If one has the courage to ask her what she thinks, she is always saying the very opposite to what other people say.”
“College is the best time of your life. When else are your parents going to spend several thousand dollars a year just for you to go to a strange town and get drunk every night?”
“New information and communications technologies can improve the quality of life for people with disabilities, but only if such technologies are designed from the beginning so that everyone can use them. Given the explosive growth in the use of the World Wide Web for publishing, electronic commerce, lifelong learning and the delivery of government services, it is vital that the Web be accessible to everyone.”
“If life gives you lemons, make some kind of fruity juice.”
“I think togetherness is a very important ingredient to family life.”
“When life demands more of people than they demand of life - as is ordinarily the case - what results is a resentment of life almost as deep-seated as the fear of death”
“One must never set up a murder. They must happen unexpectedlly, as in life.”
“In an active life is sown the seed of wisdom; but he who reflects not, never reaps; has no harvest from it, but carries the burden of age without the wages of experience; nor knows himself old, but from his infirmities, the parish register, and the contempt of mankind. And age, if it has not esteem, has nothing.”
“I should like to spend the whole of my life in traveling abroad, if I could anywhere borrow another life to spend afterwards at home.”
“It is true that every day has its own evil, and its good too. But how difficult must life be, especially farther on when the evil of each day increases as far as worldly things go, if it is not strengthened and comforted by faith. And in Christ all worldly things may become better, and, as it were, sanctified. Theo, woe is me if I do not preach the Gospel; if I did not aim at that and possess faith and hope in Christ, it would be bad for me indeed, but no I have some courage.”
“Too often man handles life as he does the bad weather, He whiles away the time as he waits for it to stop.”
“Life anit always what it seems to be, and words can't express what you mean to me.”
“The worst sorrows in life are not in its losses and misfortunes, but its fears.”
“I'm able to get by very well in life, and also with my work, without beloved God. But I, a suffering human being, can not survive without there being something greater than myself, which for me is my whole life- the creative power...I want to paint m”
“Neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God.”
“Never permit a dichotomy to rule your life, a dichotomy in which you hate what you do so you can have pleasure in your spare time. Look for a situation in which your work will give you as much happiness as your spare time.”
“Abide thou with me, fear not: for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life: but with me thou shalt be in safeguard (1 Samuel 22:23).”
“The stage is life, music, beautiful girls, legs, breasts, not talk or intellectualism or dried-up academics.”
“When I was going through my transition of being famous, I tried to ask God why was I here? what was my purpose? Surely, it wasn't just to win three gold medals. There has to be more to this life than that.”
“He that loveth his life shall lose it; and he that hateth his life in this world shall keep it unto life eternal (John 12:25).”
“A life without adventure is likely to be unsatisfying, but a life in which adventure is allowed to take whatever form it will is sure to be short.”
“I have been uncompromising, peppery, intractable, monomaniacal, tactless, volatile, and ofttimes disagreeable... I suppose I'm larger than life.”
“Fellowship is heaven, and lack of fellowship is hell; fellowship is life, and lack of fellowship is death; and the deeds that ye do upon the earth, it is for fellowship's sake that ye do them.”
“Of all the diversions of life, there is none so proper to fill up its empty spaces as the reading of useful and entertaining authors.”
“Hope for the best, expect the worst./ Life is a play. We're unrehearsed.”
“Property is unstable, and youth perishes in a moment. Life itself is held in the grinning fangs of Death, Yet men delay to obtain release from the world. Alas, the conduct of mankind is surprising.”
“Boy, life takes a long time to live”
“The human condition is such that pain and effort are not just symptoms which can be removed without changing life itself; they are the modes in which life itself, together with the necessity to which it is bound, makes itself felt. For mortals, the ''easy life of the gods'' would be a lifeless life.”
“Did you ever notice that life seems to follow certain patterns? Like I noticed that every year around this time, I hear Christmas music”
“Everybody's a mad scientist, and life is their lab. We're all trying to experiment to find a way to live, to solve problems, to fend off madness and chaos.”
“If you want to live a long life, focus on making contributions.”
“Since every effort in our educational life seems to be directed toward making of the child a being foreign to itself, it must of necessity produce individuals foreign to one another, and in everlasting antagonism with each other.”
“All life is only a set of pictures in the brain, among which there is no difference betwixt those born of real things and those born of inward dreamings, and no cause to value the one above the other.”
“My mother speaks of my step being a source of life-long pain to her, that it is a living death, etc. By the same post I had several letters from anxious relatives, telling me that it was my duty to come home and thus ease my mother's anxiety.”
“Is life so dear, or peace so sweet, as to be purchased at the price of chains or slavery? Forbid it, Almighty God! I know not what course others may take but as for me; give me liberty or give me death!”
“From death springs life and from the graves of great patriots springs a great nation”
“All stereotypes turn out to be true. This is a horrifying thing about life. All those things you fought against as a youth: you begin to realize they're stereotypes because they're true.”
“Wisdom is your perspective on life, your sense of balance, your understanding of how the various parts and principles apply and relate to each other. It embraces judgment, discernment, comprehension. It is a gestalt or oneness, and integrated wholeness.”
“Art may imitate life, but life imitates TV.”
“Courage is the price that life exacts for granting peace. The soul that knows it not, knows no release from little things; knows not the livid loneliness of fear.”
“Without music, life is a journey through a desert.”
“Acting is nothing more or less than playing. The idea is to humanize life.”
“It is better to be a lion for a day than a sheep all your life”
“Love means the body, the soul, the life, the entire being. We feel love as we feel the warmth of our blood, we breathe love as we breathe air, we hold it in ourselves as we hold our thoughts. Nothing more exists for us.”
“Thought means life, since those who do not think so do not live in any high or real sense. Thinking makes the man.”
“Life is a gift, given in trust - like a child.”
“It is our duty to share and maintain life. Reverence concerning all life in the greatest commandment in its most elementary form. Or expressed in negative terms : Thou shalt not kill. We take this prohibition so lightly, thoughtlessly plucking a flow”
“Reverence for life affords me my fundamental principle of morality, namely that good consists in maintaining, assisting, and enhancing life, and that to destroy, to harm, or to hinder life is evil”
“Do not imagine you can exorcise what oppresses you in life by giving vent to it in art”
“Love-matches are made by people who are content, for a month of honey, to condemn themselves to a life of vinegar.”
“The most glorious moments in your life are not the so-called days of success, but rather those days when out of dejection and despair you feel rise in you a challenge to life, and the promise of future accomplishments.”
“We continue to shape our personality all our life. If we knew ourselves perfectly, we should die.”
“As a remedy to life in society I would suggest the big city. Nowadays, it is the only desert within our means.”
“I have been overcome by the beauty and richness of our life together, those early mornings setting out, those evenings gleaming with rivers and lakes below us, still holding the last light.”
“Life is absurd”
“Common sense and good nature will do a lot to make the pilgrimage of life not too difficult”
“I saw that all beings are fated to happiness: action is not life, but a way of wasting some force, an enervation. Morality is the weakness of the brain.”
“The world is not respectable; it is mortal, tormented, confused, deluded forever; but it is shot through with beauty, with love, with glints of courage and laughter; and in these, the spirit blooms timidly, and struggles to the light amid the thorns.”
“Let's face it. In most of life we really are interdependent. We need each other. Staunch independence is an illusion, but heavy dependence isn't healthy, either. The only position of long-term strength is interdependence: win/win.”
“"The shortness of life, I keep saying, makes everything seem pointless when I think about the longess of death. When I look ahead, all I can see is my final demise. And they say not for seventy or eighty years. And I say, Maybe you, but me, I'm already gone.”
“Love, the strongest and deepest element in all life, the harbinger of hope, of joy, of ecstasy; love, the definer of all laws, of all conventions; love, the freest, the most powerful moulder of human destiny; how can such an all-compelling force be synonymous with that poor little State and Church-begotten weed, marriage?”
“What's the subject of life - to get rich? All of those fellows out there getting rich could be dancing around the real subject of life.”
“A life based on reason will always require to be balanced by an occasional bout of violent and irrational emotion, for instinctual drives must be satisfied”
“Every one of us lives his life just once; if we are honest, to live once is enough”
“The drama of life begins with a wail and ends with a sigh.”
“Our passion is our strength.”
“Her blood coursed through my veins sweeter than life itself. And as it did, Lestat's words made sense to me. I knew peace only when I killed and when I heard her heart in that terrible rhythm, I knew again what peace could be.”
“Some of the worst mistakes of my life have been haircuts.”
“Life and love are life and love, a bunch of violets is a bunch of violets, and to drag in the idea of a point is to ruin everything. Live and let live, love and let love, flower and fade, and follow the natural curve, which flows on, pointless.”
“Life is like a hand of cards. You have to play the hand you're dealt, you can't win by folding, and sometimes you must take chances in order to win.”
“At the end of what is called the "sexual life" the only love which has lasted is the love which has everything, every disappointment, every failure and every betrayal, which has accepted even the sad fact that in the end there is no desire so deep as the simple desire for companionship.”
“Life is doubt, And faith without doubt is nothing but death”
“However great a man's fear of life, suicide remains the courageous act, the clear-headed act of a mathematician. The suicide has judged by the laws of chance -- so many odds against one that to live will be more miserable than to die. His sense of mathematics is greater than his sense of survival. But think how a sense of survival must clamor to be heard at the last moment, what excuses it must present of a totally unscientific nature.”
“Even without wars, life is dangerous.”
“Not a shred of evidence exists in favor of the idea that life is serious.”
“Is life so wretched? Isn't it rather your hands which are too small, your vision which is muddled? You are the one who must grow up.”
“Our obligation is to give meaning to life and in doing so to overcome the passive, indifferent life”
“Liberty, as well as honor, man ought to preserve at the hazard of his life, for without it life is insupportable.”
“If we have been pleased with life, we should not be displeased with death, since it comes from the hand of the same master.”
“You make a living by what you get. You make a life by what you give.”
“Life is full of infinite absurdities, which, strangely enough, do not even need to appear plausible, since they are true”
“I sit astride life like a bad rider on a horse. I only owe it to the horse's good nature that I am not thrown off at this very moment.”
“People teach their dogs to sit, it's a trick. I've been sitting my whole life, and a dog has never looked at me as though he thought I was tricky.”
“He who has not forgiven an enemy has not yet tasted one of the most sublime enjoyments of life”
“Actors ought to be larger than life. You come across quite enough ordinary, nondescript people in daily life and I don't see why you should be subjected to them on the stage too.”
“My mom, she is the most unbelievable mom that you could ever have in your entire life and she's always with me on everything. The most I've ever been away from her is two days. I love her more than anybody could ever know.”
“Live, so you do not have to look back and say: 'God, how I have wasted my life.'”
“No one who has ever brought up a child can doubt for a moment that love is literally the life-giving fluid of human existence”
“He'd been listening to black music all his life,”
“My goal is to be one with the music. I just dedicate my whole life to this art.”
“We must have ideals and try to live up to them, even if we never quite succeed. Life would be a sorry business without them. With them it's grand and great.”
“If life gives you limes, make margaritas.”
“'Tis the soldier's life to have their balmy slumbers waked with strife.”
“None of my own experiences ever finds its way into my work. However, the stages of my life -- motherhood, middle age, etc. -- often influence my subject matter.”
“I must have something to engross my thoughts, some object in life which will fill this vacuum and prevent this sad wearing away of the heart.”
“Life is not over because you have diabetes. Make the most of what you have, be grateful.”
“Sexual love is undoubtedly one of the chief things in life, and the union of mental and bodily satisfaction in the enjoyment of love is one of its culminating peaks. Apart from a few queer fanatics, all the world knows this and conducts its life accordingly; science alone is too delicate to admit it.”
“Discretion is the perfection of reason, and a guide to us in all the duties of life.”
“I don't believe that life is supposed to make you feel good, or make you feel miserable either. Life is just supposed to make you feel.”
“Let us be about setting high standards for life, love, creativity, and wisdom. If our expectations in these areas are low, we are not likely to experience wellness. Setting high standards makes every day and every decade worth looking forward to.”
“The hardest thing in life to learn is which bridge to cross and which to burn.”
“I have been asked on hundreds of times in my life why God allows tragedy and suffering. I have to confess that I really do not know the answer totally, even to my own satisfaction. I have to accept, by faith, that God is sovereign, and He is a God of love and mercy and compassion in the midst of suffering.”
“To Englishmen, life is a topic, not an activity.”
“Life offstage has sometimes been a wilderness of unpredictables in an unchoreographed world.”
“Time goes, you say? Ah no! Alas, Time stays, we go”
“Popularity is exhausting. The life of the party almost always winds up in a corner with an overcoat over him.”
“Someone said that life is a party. You join in after it's started and leave before it's finished.”
“We had no knowledge that our lives had just changed. You seldom sit at a crossroads and know it's a crossroads. But from the ovation forward, my life was not going to be the same.”
“There are a lot of people who know me who can't understand for the life of them why I would got to work on something as unserious as baseball. If they only knew.”
“I shall love her all my life, shall be to her a faithful friend, and if I can not remain loyal to both God and her I shall renounce her and never see her face again. You call this folly; to me it is a hard duty, and the more I love her the worthier of her will I endevour to become by my own integrity of soul.”
“If I weren't reasonably placid, I don't think I could cope with this sort of life. To be a diva, you've got to be absolutely like a horse.”
“You never know what life has in store for you, but I believe there are certain things one is meant to go through.”
“How many a man has dated a new era in his life from the reading of a book! The book exists for us, perchance, that will explain our miracles and reveal new ones. The at present unutterable things we may find somewhere uttered.”
“Football Is an honest game. It's true to life . It's a game about sharing. Football is a team game. So is life.”
“I've only read two books in my life: Baseball Sparkplug and Love Story.”
“The happiest times in my life were when my relationships were going well -- when I was in love with someone, and someone was loving me. But in my whole life, I haven't met the person I can sustain a relationship with yet. So I'm discontented about that. I'm angry with myself. I have regrets.”
“He bade me observe it, and I should always find, that the calamities of life were shared among the upper and lower part of mankind; but that the middle station had the fewest disasters”
“Perhaps the best cure for the fear of death is to reflect that life has a beginning as well as an end. There was a time when we were not: this gives us no concern - why then should it trouble us that a time will come when we shall cease to be? To die is only to be as we were before we were born.”
“Half the failures in life arise from pulling in one's horse as he is leaping.”
“In the evening of life, we will be judged on love alone.”
“The ultimate end of all revolutionary social change is to establish the sanctity of human life, the dignity of man, the right of every human being to liberty and well-being”
“Winning is great, sure, but if you are really going to do something in life, the secret is learning how to lose. Nobody goes undefeated all the time. If you can pick up after a crushing defeat, and go on to win again, you are going to be a champion someday.”
“Life is best enjoyed when time periods are evenly divided between labor, sleep, and recreation...all people should spend one-third of their time in recreation which is rebuilding, voluntary activity, never idleness.”
“How can they say my life is not a success? Have I not for more than sixty years got enough to eat and escaped being eaten?”
“Today, the degradation of the inner life is symbolized by the fact that the only place sacred from interruption is the private toilet.”
“There is the view that poetry should improve your life. I think people confuse it with the Salvation Army.”
“I am convinced, the longer I live, that life & its blessings are not so entirely unjustly distributed [as] when we are suffering greatly, we are inclined to suppose.”
“Woman embroiders man's life - Embroider is to beautify - The embroidery of cleanliness - Of a smile - Of gentle words”
“The difficulty in life is the choice.”
“Love is your life, your friend, your relative, your food and your everything. Heart that is filled with love can never be polluted. Love is nectarine. Once you fill it in your heart, the poison of evil will have no place in it.”
“One who is addicted to intoxicating drinks and meat eating and leads a sensuous life is a demonic being.Such a person is intensely selfish and has no feeling or consideration for others.”
“A man who has been the indisputable favorite of his mother keeps for life the feeling of a conqueror.”
“It's precisely the disappointing stories, which have no proper ending and therefore no proper meaning, that sound true to life.”
“She had the loaded handbag of someone who camps out and seldom goes home, or who imagines life must be full of emergencies.”
“If you want your life to be a magnificent story, then begin by realizing that you are the author and everyday you have the opportunity to write a new page.”
“It is impossible to live a pleasant life without living wisely and well and justly. And it is impossible to live wisely and well and justly without living a pleasant life.”
“As long as I live under the capitalistic system I expect to have my life influenced by the demands of moneyed people. But I will be damned if I propose the be at the beck and call of every itinerant scoundrel. . . .”
“Life is a bridge over the sea of changes. Do not build a house on it.”
“We are alone, absolutely alone on this chance planet; and amid all the forms of life that surround us, not one, excepting the dog has made an alliance with us.”
“We die. That may be the meaning of life. But we do language. That may be the measure of our lives.”
“If you can do what you do best and be happy, you're further along in life than most people.”
“Life is obstinate and clings closest where it is most hated.”
“Life is life - whether in a cat, or dog or man. There is no difference there between a cat or a man. The idea of difference is a human conception for man's own advantage.”
“The vigor and power and comfort of our spiritual life depends on our mortification of deeds of the flesh”
“My whole artistic life has always been about change, change, change, move on, move on. It's the only thing I find interesting.”
“The thought that life could be better is woven indelibly into our hearts and our brains.”
“In the game of life it's a good idea to have a few early losses, which relives you of the pressure of trying to maintain an undefeated season.”
“My life so common it disappears and sometimes even music cannot substitute for tears.”
“The financial reward is great and I love the life I have, but all money makes possible is for you to stop worrying about money. Then you have freedom to live your life.”
“Life without a friend is like death without a witness”
“The real tragedy is the tragedy of the man who never in his life braces himself for his one supreme effort, who never stretches to his full capacity, never stands up to his full stature”
“In between goals is a thing called life, that has to be lived and enjoyed.”
“Fiction gives us a second chance that life denies us.”
“Put love first. Entertain thoughts that give life. And when a thought or resentment, or hurt, or fear comes your way, have another thought that is more powerful -- a thought that is love.”
“To have a group of cloistered clinicians away completely from the broad current of professional life would be bad for teacher and worse for student. The primary work of a professor of medicine in a medical school is in the wards, teaching his pupils how to deal with patients and their diseases.”
“I want you to start a crusade in you life - to dare to be your best.”
“Latent in every man is a venom of amazing bitterness, a black resentment; something that curses and loathes life, a feeling of being trapped, of having trusted and been fooled, of being the helpless prey of impotent rage, blind surrender, the victim of a savage, ruthless power that gives and takes away, enlists a man, and crowning injury inflicts upon him the humiliation of feeling sorry for himself.”
“Life being what it is, one dreams of revenge.”
“But someone once described the contrast between a good life and a godly life as the difference between the top of the ocean and the bottom. On top, sometimes it's like glass -- serene and calm -- and other times it's raging and stormy. But hundreds of fathoms below, it is beautiful and consistent, always calm, always peaceful.”
“I look to the future because that's where I'm going to spend the rest of my life.”
“Life is short and full of blisters”
“Many people flounder about in life because they do not have a purpose, an objective toward which to work.”
“A woman's whole life is a history of the affections.”
“The best biographies leave their readers with a sense of having all but entered into a second life and of having come to know another human being in some ways better than he knew himself.”
“For some life lasts a short while, but the memories it holds last forever.”
“The women's movement hasn't changed my sex life. It wouldn't dare.”
“When you do the common things in life in an uncommon way, you will command the attention of the world.”
“Life without endeavor is like entering a jewel-mine and coming out with empty hands”
“Pain does not have a moral value. Drugs do not have a moral value. Life is good... to be cherished, promoted and supported. We, as physicians, should not be moralizing about pain or its treatments.”
“Everyone in this life is defeated. But a man, if he be a man, is not defeated.”
“Soccer has never really run my life.”
“I won't eat anything that has intelligent life, but I'd gladly eat a network executive or a politician”
“Variety's the very spice of life, That gives it all its flavor”
“You don't have to be the Dalai Lama to tell people that life's about change.”
“Humor has been the balm of my life, but it's been reserved for those close to me, not part of the public Lana.”
“There are few situations in life that cannot be resolved promptly, and to the satisfaction of all concerned, by either suicide, a bag of gold, or thrusting a despised antagonist over a precipice on a dark night”
“One doesn't recognize the really important moments in one's life until it's too late.”
“The life of inner peace, being harmonious and without stress, is the easiest type of existence.”
“You have only a short period of time in your life to make your mark, and I'm there now.”
“When people complain of life, it is almost always because they have asked impossible things of it.”
“For all life is a dream, and dreams themselves are only dreams.”
“Here's a toast to your new bride who has everything a girl could want in her life, except for good taste in men!”
“Expose yourself to your deepest fear; after that, fear has no power, and the fear of freedom shrinks and vanishes. You are free.”
“We are lonesome animals. We spend all our life trying to be less lonesome. One of our ancient methods is to tell a story begging the listener to say -- and to feel -- ''Yes, that's the way it is, or at least that's the way I feel it. You're not as alone as you thought.''”
“I find that when you have a real interest in life and a curious life, that sleep is not the most important thing.”
“Those that I fight I do not hate, those that I guard I do not love.”
“We look at the dance to impart the sensation of living in an affirmation of life, to energize the spectator into keener awareness of the vigor, the mystery, the humor, the variety, and the wonder of life. This is the function of the American dance.”
“All my life through, the new sights of Nature made me rejoice like a child.”
“If you give your life as a wholehearted response to love, then love will wholeheartedly respond to you.”
“Romance is the glamour which turns the dust of everyday life into a golden haze.”
“Let the spirit out - Discard all thoughts of reward, all hopes of praise and fears of blame, all awareness of one's bodily self. And, finally closing the avenues of sense perception, let the spirit out, as it will.”
“It should be the function of medicine to help people die young as late in life as possible”
“I don't want life to imitate art. I want life to be art.”
“Wrestling has been a way of life with me day in and day out. I won't get too far away from it. I might walk through the wrestling room once a week. I could go every day if I wanted. But just walk through, make sure it's still there.”
“I bring to my life a certain amount of mess.”
“High ethics and religious principles form the basis for success and happiness in every area of life”
“Aging seems to be the only available way to live a long life.”
“The Sun, the hearth of affection and life, pours burning love on the delighted earth.”
“Man's main task in life is to give birth to himself, to become what he potentially is. The most important product of his effort is his own personality.”
“Such happiness as life is capable of comes from the full participation of all our powers in the endeavor to wrest from each changing situations of experience its own full and unique meaning.”
“The actor becomes an emotional athlete. The process is painful - my personal life suffers.”
“Mine honor is my life; both grow in one; Take honor from me, and my life is done.”
“To be completely woman you need a master, and in him a compass for your life. You need a man you can look up to and respect. If you dethrone him it's no wonder that you are discontented, and discontented women are not loved for long.”
“Memory holds together past and present, gives continuity and dignity to human life... the companion... the tutor, the poet, the library, with which you travel.”
“Do all the work you can; that is the whole philosophy of the good way of life”
“Yet call not this long life; but think that I
Am, by being dead, immortal; can ghosts die?”
“Rain is grace; rain is the sky condescending to the earth; without rain, there would be no life.”
“It is not likely that any complete life has ever been lived which was not a failure in the secret judgment of the person that lived it”
“Coping with the demands of everyday life would be exceedingly trying if one could arrive at solutions to problems only by actually performing possible options and suffering the consequences.”
“Life on the road can get a little one-dimensional. I didn't want to reach 40 and have to say all I'd done was look out the window of a tour bus and get drunk.”
“Life is a solitary cell whose walls are mirrors.”
“Try to put your happiness before anyone else's, because you may never have done so in your entire life, if you really think about it, if you are really honest with yourself.”
“One of the most fascinating things about golf is how it reflects the cycle of life. No matter what you shoot, the next day you have to go back to the first tee and begin all over again and make yourself into something.”
“In reality, serendipity accounts for one percent of the blessings we receive in life, work and love. The other 99 percent is due to our efforts.”
“Wouldn't it be much worse if life were fair and all the terrible things that happen to us, come because actually deserve them? So now I take comfort in the general hostility and unfairness of the Universe”
“Humility is the only true wisdom by which we prepare our minds for all the possible changes of life.”
“The business of life is to enjoy oneself; everything else is a mockery.”
“And this our life, exempt from public haunt, finds tongues in trees, books in running brooks, sermons in stones, and good in everything.”
“Life is a warfare and a stranger's sojourn, and after fame is oblivion.”
“Bring me then the plant that points to those bright Lucidites swirling up from the earth, And life itself exhaling that central breath! Bring me the sunflower crazed with the love of light”
“The higher the hill, the stronger the wind: so the loftier the life,the stronger the enemy's temptations”
“Sometimes when we are generous in small, barely detectable ways it can change someone else's life forever.”
“Mistakes are a part of being human. Appreciate your mistakes for what they are: precious life lessons that can only be learned the hard way. Unless it's a fatal mistake, which, at least, others can learn from.”
“I'll play out the string and leave baseball without a tear. A man can't play games his whole life.”
“I understood that all the material of a literary work was in my past life, I understood that I had acquired it in the midst of frivolous amusements, in idleness, in tenderness and in pain, stored up by me without my divining its destination or even its survival, as the seed has in reserve all the ingredients which will nourish the plant.”
“The life so short, the crafts so long to learn”
“This is all you have. This is not a dry run. This is your life. If you want to fritter it away with your fears, then you will fritter it away, but you won't get it back later.”
“Life, as it is called, is for most of us one long postponement”
“I have discovered in life that there are ways of getting almost anywhere you want to go, if you really want to go.”
“I saw how different life was on different sides of the same city. I saw the fear in the eyes of people who were not free. I saw the gratitude of people toward the United States for all that we had done. I felt goosebumps as I got off a military train and heard the Army band strike up "Stars and Stripes Forever."”
“Of course the illusion of art is to make one believe that great literature is very close to life, but exactly the opposite is true. Life is amorphous, literature is formal.”
“Every day has been so short, every hour so fleeting, every minute so filled with the life I love that time for me has fled on too swift a wing.”
“In our life there is a single color, as on an artist's palette, which provides the meaning of life and art. It is the color of love.”
“With Heaven's aid I have conquered for you a huge empire. But my life was too short to achieve the conquest of the world. That task is left for you”
“Thank you, God, for this good life and forgive us if we do not love it enough.”
“Life is a corrupting process from the time a child learns to play his mother off against his father in the politics of when to go to bed; he who fears corruption fears life.”
“Too many people go through life waiting for things to happen instead of making them happen!”
“With each book I write, I become more and more convinced that [the books] have a life of their own, quite apart from me.”
“The hero is the man dedicated to the creation and / or defense of reality-conforming, life-promoting values.”
“In the evening of life we shall be judged on love, and not one of us is going to come off very well, and were it not for my absolute faith in the loving forgiveness of my Lord I could not call on him to come.”
“Life has a practice of living you, if you don't live it.”
“Death has a thousand doors to let out life: I shall find one”
“In this life, to earn your place you have to fight for it”
“The true secret of happiness lies in taking a genuine interest in all the details of daily life.”
“I believe that any man's life will be filled with constant and unexpected encouragement, if he makes up his mind to do his level best each day, and as nearly as possible reaching the high water mark of pure and useful living.”
“They say life's what happens when you're busy making other plans. But sometimes in New York, life is what happens when you're waiting for a table.”
“Books are not absolutely dead things, but do contain a potency of life in them to be as active as that soul was whose progeny they are; nay they do preserve as in a vial the purest efficacy and extraction of that living intellect that bred them”
“Life is not all about sex. [Samantha]”
“The tragedy of life is in what dies inside a man while he lives -- the death of genuine feeling, the death of inspired response, the awareness that makes it possible to feel the pain or the glory of other men in yourself.”
“My major regret in life is that my childhood was unnecessarily lonely.”
“To expect too much is to have a sentimental view of life and this is a softness that ends in bitterness”
“Life begets life. Energy creates energy. It is by spending oneself that one becomes rich.”
“Surprise is the greatest gift which life can grant us.”
“One of the secrets of life is to keep our intellectual curiosity acute”
“Forgive, forget. Bear with the faults of others as you would have them bear with yours. Be patient and understanding. Life is too short to be vengeful or malicious.”
“Art has two constant, two unending concerns: It always meditates on death and thus always creates life. All great, genuine art resembles and continues the Revelation of St John.”
“Such as thy words are, such will thine affections be esteemed; and such as thine affections, will be thy deeds; and such as thy deeds will be thy life”
“One day Alice came to a fork in the road and saw a Cheshire cat in a tree. Which road do I take? she asked. Where do you want to go? was his response. I don't know, Alice answered. Then, said the cat, it doesn't matter.”
“I try not to think about my life. I have no life. I need therapy.”
“I must say that acting was good training for the political life that lay ahead of us.”
“In our sad condition, our only consolation is the expectancy of another life. Here below all is incomprehensible.”
“If you want to win anything- a race, yourself, your life- you have to go a little berserk”
“We must make demands of reason and create a life worthy of ourselves and of the goals we only dimly perceive”
“Life without the courage for death is slavery”
“Nothing ever becomes real till it is experienced; even a proverb is no proverb to you till your life has illustrated it”
“Life is a gift of the immortal Gods, but living well is the gift of philosophy”
“This is one of the most important moments in the life of our country. I stand here before you filled with deep pride and joy - pride in the ordinary, humble people of this country. You have shown such calm, patient determination to reclaim this count”
“The unique personality which is the real life in me, I can not gain unless I search for the real life, the spiritual quality, in others. I am myself spiritually dead unless I reach out to the fine quality dormant in others. For it is only with the god enthroned in the innermost shrine of the other, that the god hidden in me, will consent to appear.”
“The most important thing in the Olympic Games is not winning but taking part; the essential thing in life is not conquering but fighting well.”
“The important thing in life is not victory but combat; it is not to have vanquished but to have fought well.”
“Sex, a great and mysterious motive force in human life, has indisputably been a subject of absorbing interest to mankind through the ages.”
“There is nothing more tragic than to find an individual bogged down in the length of life, devoid of breadth.”
“Whatever career you may choose for yourself - doctor, lawyer, teacher - let me propose an avocation to be pursued along with it. 
Become a dedicated fighter for civil rights. 
Make it a central part of your life. It will make you a better doctor, a better lawyer, a better teacher. 
It will enrich your spirit as nothing else possibly can. It will give you that rare sense of nobility that can only spring from love and selflessly helping your fellow man. 
Make a career of humanity.
Commit yourself to the noble struggle for human rights.
You will make a greater person of yourself, a greater nation of your country and a finer world to live in.”
“The human spirit sublimates the impulses it thwarts; a healthy sex life mitigates the lust for other sports”
“Absence is one of the most useful ingredients of family life, and to dose it rightly is an art like any other.”
“To burn always with this hard, gem-like flame, to maintain this ecstasy, is success in life.”
“Life affords no higher pleasure than that of surmounting difficulties, passing from one step of success to another, forming new wishes and seeing them gratified.”
“Lives are snowflakes - forming patterns we have seen before, as like one another as peas in a pod (and have you ever looked at peas in a pod? I mean, really looked at them? There's not a chance you'd mistake one for another, after a minute's close in”
“They say golf is like life, but don't believe them. Golf is more complicated than that.”
“My life is one long curve, full of turning points.”
“You do things when the opportunities come along. I've had periods in my life when I've had a bundle of ideas come along, and I've had long dry spells. If I get an idea next week, I'll do something. If not, I won't do a damn thing.”
“You only have to do a very few things right in your life so long as you don't do too many things wrong.”
“Poverty - it is life near the bone, where it is sweetest”
“Life is denied by lack of attention, whether it be to cleaning windows or trying to write a masterpiece.”
“Scared of the world outside you should go explore, pull all the shades and wander the great indoors. Though lately I can't blame you, I have seent he world and sometimes I wish your room had room for two.”
“A creature who has spent his life creating one particular representation of his selfdom will die rather than become the antithesis of that representation”
“Most modern calendars mar the sweet simplicity of our lives by reminding us that each day that passes is the anniversary of some perfectly uninteresting event.”
“The most useful piece of learning for the uses of life is to unlearn what is untrue.”
“Nothing is given to man on earth - struggle is built into the nature of life, and conflict is possible - the hero is the man who lets no obstacle prevent him from pursuing the values he has chosen.”
“I say never be complete, I say stop being perfect, I say let... lets evolve, let the chips fall where they may.”
“Acting is the expression of a neurotic impulse. It's a bum's life. Quitting acting, that's the sign of maturity.”
“...human beings are not born once and for all on the day their mothers give birth to them, but...life obliges them over and over again to give birth to themselves.”
“. . . he would have passed a pleasant life of it, in despite of the Devil and all his works, if his path had not been crossed by a being that causes more perplexity to mortal man than ghosts, goblins, and the whole race of witches put together, and that was--a woman.”
“Human life in common is only made possible when a majority comes together which is stronger than any separate individual and which remains united against all separate individuals. The power of this community is then set up as ''right'' in opposition to the power of the individual, which is condemned as ''brute force.''”
“Generosity during life is a very different thing from generosity in the hour of death; one proceeds from genuine liberality and benevolence, the other from pride or fear.”
“Our dead brothers still live for us and bid us think of life, not death / of life to which in their youth they lent the passion and glory of Spring. As I listen, the great chorus of life and joy begins again, and amid the awful orchestra of seen and unseen powers and destinies of good and evil, our trumpets, sound once more a note of daring, hope, and will.”
“Challenges are what make life interesting; overcoming them is what makes life meaningful.”
“What is the most innocent place in any country? Is it not the insane asylum? These people drift through life truly innocent, unable to see into themselves at all.”
“Without a firm idea of himself and the purpose of his life, man cannot live, and would sooner destroy himself than remain on earth, even if he was surrounded by bread.”
“you can like the life you're living, 
you can live the life you like. 
you can even marry harry, 
but mess around with ike 
and that's good, 
isn't it grand? isn't it great? isn't it swell? 
in fifty years or so, 
it's gonna change you know, 
but oh it's heaven now a days.”
“Christianity provides a unified answer for the whole of life.”
“Everything I do in my life is very instinctual and in the moment. If I'm attracted to something, that's it. If I have reservations, those don't change till they're resolved. My first impression is how I go.”
“Fathers should be neither seen nor heard. That is the only proper basis for family life.”
“Conscience is the perfect interpreter of life.”
“Reading is a basic tool in the living of a good life.”
“Life - the way it really is - is a battle not between Bad and Good but between Bad and Worse”
“All is but toys: renown, and grace, is dead; The wine of life is drawn, and the mere lees Is left this vault to brag of”
“Not only is life a bitch, but it is always having puppies.”
“Service is what life is all about.”
“Life is like arriving late for a movie, having to figure out what was going on without bothering everybody with a lot of questions, and then being unexpectedly called away before you find out how it ends”
“I miss the meaning of my own part in the play of life because I know not the parts that others play”
“Just when I think I have learned the way to live, life changes.”
“It's extraordinary how we go through life with eyes half shut, with dull ears, with dormant thoughts. Perhaps it's just as well; and it may be that it is this very dullness that makes life to the incalculable majority so supportable and so welcome.”
“Perhaps life is just that... a dream and a fear.”
“To improve the golden moment of opportunity, and catch the good that is within our reach, is the great art of life.”
“A long life in journalism convinced me many presidents ago that there should be a large air space between a journalist and the head of a state.”
“Man spends his life in reasoning on the past, in complaining of the present, in fearing future.”
“If you want to take your mission in life to the next level, if you're stuck and you don't know how to rise, don't look outside yourself. Look inside. Don't let your fears keep you mired in the crowd. Abolish your fears and raise your commitment level to the point of no return, and I guarantee you that the Champion Within will burst forth to propel you toward victory.”
“The lack of opportunity is ever the excuse of a weak, vacillating mind. Opportunities! Every life is full of them. Every newspaper article is an opportunity. Every client is an opportunity. Every sermon is an opportunity. Every business transaction i”
“The primary joy of life is acceptance, approval, the sense of appreciation and companionship of our human comrades. Many men do not understand that the need for fellowship is really as deep as the need for food, and so they go through life accepting many substitutes for genuine, warm, simple.”
“Any sort of pretension induces mediocrity in art and life alike”
“For most people, a life lived alone, with passing strangers or passing lovers, is incoherent and ultimately unbearable. Someone must be there to know what we have done for those we love.”
“Let not one single life have passed in vain. What really matters is who you love and how you love.”
“In this theater of man's life, it is reserved only for God and angels to be lookers-on.”
“I'm afraid sometimes 
you'll play lonely games too,
games you can't win
because you'll play against you”
“No city invites the heart to come to life as San Francisco does. Arrival in San Francisco is an experience in living.”
“You are going to use this courtroom to kill me? I am going to fight for my life one way or another. You should let me do it with words.”
“If you treat every situation as a life-and-death matter, you’ll die a lot of times.”
“The technologies which have had the most profound effects on human life are usually simple.”
“Any life career that you choose in following your bliss should be chosen with that sense — that nobody can frighten me off from this thing. And no matter what happens, this is the validation of my life and action.”
“All of the animals except for man know that the principle business of life is to enjoy it.”
“He who trusts all things to chance, makes a lottery of his life”
“Life is one long process of getting tired.”
“Only three things in life are certain birth, death and change”
“Among the natural rights of the colonists are these: First a right to life, secondly to liberty, and thirdly to property; together with the right to defend them in the best manner they can”
“Olympism is a philosophy which, by blending sport with culture, seeks to create a way of life based on the joy found in effort, the educational value of good example and respect for universal ethical principle”
“I'll tell you what's helped me my entire life. I look at baseball as a game. It's something where people can go out, enjoy and have fun. Nothing more.”
“The wonderful thing about books is that they allow us to enter imaginatively into someone else's life. And when we do that, we learn to sympathize with other people. But the real surprise is that we also learn truths about ourselves, about our own lives that somehow we hadn't been able to see before.”
“The key to success is to keep growing in all areas of life - mental, emotional, spiritual, as well as physical.”
“Helping people in need is a good and essential part of my life, a kind of destiny.”
“So softly death succeeded life in her, She did but dream of heaven, and she was there”
“Life is short, and it is here to be lived.”
“The aims of life are the best defense against death.”
“Without discipline, there's no life at all.”
“I have been up against tough competition all my life. I wouldn't know how to get along without it.”
“A celebrity is a person who works hard all his life to become well known, then wears dark glasses to avoid being recognized.”
“An actor's popularity is fleeting. His success has the life expectancy of a small boy who is about to look into a gas tank with a lighted match.”
“Misdirected life force is the activity in disease process. Disease has no energy save what it borrows from the life of the organism. It is by adjusting the life force that healing must be brought about, and it is the sun as transformer and distributor of primal spiritual energy that must be utilized in this process, for life and the sun are so intimately connected.”
“In the time of your life, live - so that in that wondrous time you shall not add to the misery and sorrow of the world, but shall smile to the infinite variety and mystery of it.”
“Hold it the greatest sin to prefer existence to honor, and for the sake of life to lose the reasons for living”
“Rhythm is the basis of life, not steady forward progress. The forces of creation, destruction, and preservation have a whirling, dynamic interaction.”
“There is a saying that life is a river and it will take you to where ever you want to go. But reality, if you fell into a river, would you think that? No. You would try to swim to shore.”
“One of the most difficult things everyone has to learn is that for your entire life you must keep fighting and adjusting if you hope to survive. No matter who you are or what your position is you must keep fighting for whatever it is you desire to achieve.”
“Fortune rules life, not wisdom”
“Life itself is the proper binge.”
“There is no force like success, and that is why the individual makes all effort to surround himself throughout life with the evidence of it; as of the individual, so should it be of the nation.”
“Integrity of life is fame's best friend, which nobly, beyond death, shall crown in the end.”
“If one considered life as a simple loan, one would perhaps be less exacting. We possess actually nothing; everything goes through us.”
“You are who you are. people can either take it, or leave it. Never should you help people in any way make the decision of being a part of your life.”
“The great danger for family life, in the midst of any society whose idols are pleasure, comfort and independence, lies in the fact that people close their hearts and become selfish.”
“The destructive character lives from the feeling, not that life is worth living, but that suicide is not worth the trouble.”
“The most dangerous aspect of present-day life is the dissolution of the feeling of individual responsibility. Mass solitude has done away with any difference between the internal and the external, between the intellectual and the physical.”
“In family life, love is the oil that eases friction, the cement that binds closer together, and the music that brings harmony.”
“Leadership is applicable to all facets of life: a competency that you can learn to expand your perspective, set the context of a goal, understand the dynamics of human behavior and take the initiative to get to where you want to be.”
“Everything in life that we really accept undergoes a change. So suffering must become Love. That is the mystery.”
“Nothing lasts for ever but the Earth and sky.”
“In the middle of the road of my life I awoke in the dark wood where the true way was wholly lost”
“All the adversity I've had in my life, all my troubles and obstacles, have strengthened me... You may not realize it when it happens, but a kick in the teeth may be the best thing in the world for you.”
“The secret of living a life of excellence is merely a matter of thinking thoughts of excellence. Really, it's a matter of programming our minds with the kind of information that will set us free.”
“It's the little things in life that count”
“At the roll call of your life, at the end of your life, what really matters is who did you love and who did you offer love to.”
“The great sadness of my life is that I never achieved the hour newscast, which would not have been twice as good as the half-hour newscast, but many times as good.”
“Smoking kills. If you're killed, you've lost a very important part of your life.”
“One of the great undiscovered joys of life comes from doing everything one attempts to the best of one's ability. There is a special sense of satisfaction, a pride in surveying such a work, a work which is rounded, full, exact, complete in its parts, which the superficial person who leaves his or her work in a slovenly, slipshod, half-finished condition, can never know. It is this conscientious completeness which turns any work into art. The smallest task, well done, becomes a miracle of achievement.”
“Earth teach me to forget myself as melted snow forgets its life. Earth teach me resignation as the leaves which die in the fall. Earth teach me courage as the tree which stands all alone. Earth teach me regeneration as the seed which rises in the spring. ”
“Almost every man wastes part of his life in attempts to display qualities which he does not possess, and to gain applauses which he cannot keep; so that scarcely can two persons meet, but one is offended or diverted by the ostentation of the other”
“The enemy of society is middle class and the enemy of life is middle age.”
“Life is not having been told that the man has just waxed the floor”
“The waste of life occasioned by trying to do too many things at once is appalling”
“I think my greatest ambition in life is to pass on to others what I know.”
“Life is sobs, sniffles, and smiles, with sniffles predominating.”
“To cultivate kindness is a valuable part of the business of life.”
“Sometimes the world seems like a big hole. You spend all your life shouting down it and all you hear are echoes of some idiot yelling nonsense down a hole.”
“I'm looking forward to finding someone in life that I can be truly happy with and relate to on all levels - someone I can bounce my stuff off. Right now, though, I'm not searching for that. I couldn't possibly handle it at this point. But I still like knowing it will be out there sometime later.”
“We are here to add what we can to life, not to get what we can from life.”
“If you wish to succeed in life, make perseverance your bosom friend, experience your wise counselor, caution your elder brother, and hope your guardian genius.”
“At this point in my life I'd like to live as if only love mattered.”
“There are two things in life for which we are never truly prepared: Twins.”
“My alma mater was books, a good library - I could spend the rest of my life reading, just satisfying my curiosity”
“Faithfulness is to the emotional life what consistency is to the life of the intellect - simply a confession of failures”
“There is nothing like a dream to create the future.”
“The greatest sweetener of human life is friendship. To raise this to the highest pitch of enjoyment, is a secret which but few discover.”
“From what we get, we can make a living; what we give, however, makes a life.”
“We start to realize that there are anodynes in life that help us through the day. I don't care if it's a walk in the park, a look out the window, a good bubble bath - whatever. Even a meal you like, or a friend you want to call. That helps us solve all this stuff in our head.”
“If I studied all my life, I couldn't think up half the number of funny things passed in one session of congress.”
“A good book is the precious life-blood of the master spirit, embalmed and treasured up on purpose for a life beyond”
“There is no power on earth that can neutralize the influence of a high, simple and useful life.”
“My friend, let's not think of tomorrow, but let's enjoy this fleeting moment of life”
“Life is a banquet, and most poor suckers are starving to death.”
“There was that law of life, so cruel and so just, that one must grow or else pay more for remaining the same.”
“It's the most difficult [decision] I've made in my entire life, except the one I made in 1978 when I decided to get a bikini wax.”
“Even from a very early age, I knew I didn't want to miss out on anything life had to offer just because it might be considered dangerous.”
“The way to recover the meaning of life and the worthwhileness of life is to recover the power of experience, to have impulse voices from within, and to be able to hear these impulse voices from within - and make the point : This can be done.”
“Youth is not a time of life; it is a state of mind; it is not a matter of rosy cheeks, red lips and supple knees; it is a matter of the will, quality of the imagination, a vigor of the emotions; it is the freshness of the deep springs of life.”
“There is nothing certain in a man’s life but that he must lose it.”
“No matter how exotic human civilization becomes, no matter the developments of life and society nor the complexity of the machine/human interface, there always comes interludes of lonely power when the course of humankind, the very future of humankind, depends upon the relatively simple actions of single individuals.”
“You fall into my arms. / You are the good gift of destruction's path, / When life sickens more than disease / And boldness is the root of beauty- / Which draws us together.”
“A nation which makes the final sacrifice for life and freedom does not get beaten”
“Living Life Tomorrow's fate, though thou be wise, Thou canst not tell nor yet surmise; Pass, therefore, not today in vain, For it will never come again.”
“I only regret that I have but one life to lose for my country.”
“I only regret that I have but one life to give for my country.”
“A life which does not go into action is a failure”
“In real life I'm bone dry and when I play I'm a mango and in sex I'm starving to be a dripping mango”
“The important thing in life is not to triumph but to compete.”
“Life is not orderly. No matter how we try to make life so, right in the middle of it we die, lose a leg, fall in love, drop a jar of applesauce.”
“A nation's life is about as long as its reverential memory”
“The capacity for hope is the most significant fact of life. It provides human beings with a sense of destination and the energy to get started.”
“Life should be like the precious metals, weigh much in little bulk”
“The true felicity of life is to be free from anxieties and perturbations; to understand and do our duties to God and man, and to enjoy the present without any serious dependence on the future”
“All our work, our whole life is a matter of semantics, because words are the tools with which we work, the material out of which laws are made, out of which the Constitution was written. Everything depends on our understanding of them.”
“Death is a natural part of life. Rejoice for those around you who transform into the Force. Mourn them do not. Miss them do not. Attachment leads to jealously. The shadow of greed, that is.”
“The success or failure of a life, as far as posterity goes, seems to lie in the more or less luck of seizing the right moment of escape”
“I'm doing this for the kid who truly leads a 'thug life' and thinks it's HOPELESS.”
“A man who dares to waste one hour of life has not discovered the value of life”
“Be careful. Journalism is more addictive than crack cocaine. Your life can get out of balance.”
“A man practices the art of adventure when he breaks the chain of routine and renews his life through reading new books, traveling to new places, making new friends, taking up new hobbies and adopting new viewpoints”
“I love to be alone. I never found the companion that was so companionable as solitude.”
“The greatest thing in family life is to take a hint when a hint is intended-and not to take a hint when a hint isn't intended.”
“It's the process of writing and life that matters... We are trying to become sane along with our poems and stories.”
“Man... hath by nature a power
.... to preserve his property - that is, his life, liberty, and estate - against the injuries and attempts of other men.”
“Perfection does not consist in any singular state or condition of life, or in any particular set of duties, but in holy and religious conduct of ourselves in every state of Life.”
“True country music is honesty, sincerity, and real life to the hilt.”
“Thank God for the creative ideas that enrich life by adding your own creative contributions to human progress”
“It's a shallow life that doesn't give a person a few scars.”
“When a man is tired of London, he is tired of life; for there is in London all that life can afford”
“Life is but thought.”
“There's nothing half so real in life as the things you've done...inexorably, unalterably done.”
“We plan to eliminate the state of Israel and establish a purely Palestinian state. We will make life unbearable for Jews by psychological warfare and population explosion. . . . We Palestinians will take over everything, including all of Jerusalem.”
“Simplicity is making the journey of this life with just baggage enough.”
“Music is the soundtrack of your life.”
“Anxiety is the poison of human life; the parent of many sins and of more miseries. In a world where everything is doubtful, and where we may be disappointed, and be blessed in disappointment, why this restless stir and commotion of mind? Can it alter the cause, or unravel the mystery of human events?”
“It is inevitable that some defeat will enter even the most victorious life. The human spirit is never finished when it is defeated...it is finished when it surrenders.”
“If a woman has to choose between catching a fly ball and saving an infant's life, she will choose to save the infant's life without even considering if there are men on base.”
“Crime and the fear of crime have permeated the fabric of American life.”
“Capital is reckless of the health or length of life of the laborer, unless under compulsion from society”
“The sweetest and most inoffensive path of life leads through the avenues of science and learning; and whoever can either remove any obstruction in this way, or open up any new prospect, ought, so far, to be esteemed a benefactor to mankind”
“If you have zest and enthusiasm you attract zest and enthusiasm. Life does give back in kind.”
“Don't lose the best thing in your life just because you are not sure.”
“Celebrate we will because life is short but sweet for certain we're climbing two by two to be sure these days continue.”
“May you live every day of your life.”
“We are one big family of people, trying to make our way through the unfolding puzzle of life.”
“Half my life is an act of revision.”
“Respect for the fragility and importance of an individual life is still the mark of an educated man.”
“I'm the most terrific liar you ever saw in your life.”
“When real people fall down in life, they get right back up and keep walking.”
“Some people tell me that we professional players are soccer slaves. Well, if this is slavery, give me a life sentence.”
“True, we love life, not because we are used to living, but because we are used to loving. There is always some madness in love, but there is also always some reason in madness.”
“Our dreams are firsthand creations, rather than residues of waking life. We have the capacity for infinite creativity; at least while dreaming, we partake of the power of the Spirit, the infinite Godhead that creates the cosmos.”
“I think that, as life is action and passion, it is required of a man that he should share the passion and action of his time at peril of being judged not to have lived”
“Life consists not in holding good cards, but in playing those you hold well”
“When you look at your life the greatest happiness are family happinesses”
“Three grand essentials to happiness in this life are something to do, something to love, and something to hope for.”
“Love is the whole history of a woman's life, it is but an episode in a man's.”
“There is not any present moment that is unconnected with some future one. The life of every man is a continued chain of incidents, each link of which hangs upon the former. The transition from cause to effect, from event to event, is often carried on by secret steps, which our foresight cannot divine, and our sagacity is unable to trace. Evil may at some future period bring forth good; and good may bring forth evil, both equally unexpected.”
“Earth to earth, ashes to ashes, dust to dust; in sure and certain hope of the Resurrection into eternal life”
“Life is a journey that must be traveled no matter how bad the roads and accommodations.”
“Envy is the result of the effect that you have made on someone else's life, whether they want to accept it or not.”
“'In headaches and in worry
 Vaguely life leaks away,
And Time will have his fancy
 To-morrow or to-day.”
“The great gift of family life is to be intimately acquainted with people you might never even introduce yourself to, had life not done it for you”
“A hero is someone who has given his or her life to something bigger than oneself.”
“Courage and cheerfulness will not only carry you over the rough places in life, but will enable you to bring comfort and help to the weak-hearted and will console you in the sad hours”
“It had been my repeated experience that when you said to life calmly and firmly (but very firmly!),"I trust you; do what you must," life had an uncanny way of responding to your need”
“To be entirely free, and at the same time, entirely dominated by law, is the eternal paradox of human life that we realise at every moment.”
“Internet is so big, so powerful and pointless that for some people it is a complete substitute for life”
“Honesty prospers in every condition of life.”
“No young man starting in life could have better capital than plenty of friends. They will strengthen his credit, support him in every great effort, and make him what, unaided, he could never be. Friends of the right sort will help him more - to be happy and successful - than much money.”
“Fortunately [psychoanalysis] is not the only way to resolve inner conflicts. Life itself still remains a very effective therapist.”
“Living in an age of advertisement, we are perpetually disillusioned. The perfect life is spread before us every day, but it changes and withers at a touch.”
“Life is partly what we make it, and partly what it is made by the friends we choose.”
“People who live in glass houses don't have much of a sex life”
“The personal life of every individual is based on secrecy, and perhaps it is partly for that reason that civilized man is so nervously anxious that personal privacy should be respected”
“No man should go through life without once experiencing healthy, even bored solitude in the wilderness, finding himself depending solely on himself and thereby learning his true and hidden strength.”
“The whole life of man is but a point of time; let us enjoy it, therefore, while it lasts, and not spend it to no purpose”
“Life is half spent before one knows what life is.”
“Age is not all decay; it is the ripening, the swelling, of the fresh life within, that withers and bursts the husk.”
“I would like to be remembered as a man who had a wonderful time living life, a man who had good friends, fine family - and I don't think I could ask for anything more than that, actually.”
“Technology is a gift of God. After the gift of life it is perhaps the greatest of God's gifts. It is the mother of civilizations, of arts and of sciences.”
“On the highway of life, we most often recognize happiness out of the rear view mirror”
“Life is not an exact science, it is an art.”
“In the middle of the journey of our life I came to myself within a dark wood where the straight way was lost.”
“He who allows his day to pass by without practicing generosity and enjoying life's pleasures is like a blacksmith's bellows: he breathes but does not live.”
“Life does not agree with philosophy: There is no happiness that is not idleness, and only what is useless is pleasurable.”
“Every man has the right to life, to bodily integrity.”
“There is no insanity so devastating in man's life as utter sanity”
“A man's accomplishments in life are the cumulative effect of his attention to detail.”
“Living wasn't easy for you, was it? You couldn't enter your own life, but you could be someone else. You weren't you then; you were safe.”
“I really feel like life will dictate itself. You should allow it to unfold as naturally as possible. Just go with the flow. When you're really desperate, you say a few prayers and hope for the best. That's the way I've always lived my life.”
“It's life, isn't it? You plow ahead and make a hit. And you plow on and someone passes you. Then someone passes them. Time levels.”
“There is more stupidity than hydrogen in the universe, and it has a longer shelf life.”
“We defend and we build a way of life, not for America alone, but for all of mankind”
“Because of our social circumstances, male and female are really two cultures and their life experiences are utterly different”
“When we speak the word ''life',' it must be understood we are not referring to life as we know it from its surface of fact, but to that fragile, fluctuating center which forms never reach.”
“Who writes poetry imbibes honey from the poisoned lips of life.”
“Pain (any pain--emotional, physical, mental) has a message. The information it has about our life can be remarkably specific, but it usually falls into one of two categories: "We would be more alive if we did more of this," and, "Life would be more lovely if we did less of that." Once we get the pain's message, and follow its advice, the pain goes away.”
“Life is not a static thing. The only people who do not change their minds are incompetents in asylums, who can't are those in cemeteries.”
“As I grow to understand life less and less, I learn to live it more and more”
“I think that we have to be aware that people are allowed to make mistakes in their life,”
“There are two sentences inscribed upon the Delphic oracle, hugely accommodated to the usage of man's life: "Know thyself," and "Nothing too much"; and upon these all other precepts depend”
“Anyone who cannot come to terms with his life while he is alive needs one hand to ward off a little his despair over his fate... but with his other hand he can note down what he sees among the ruins.”
“Art is the tree of life. Science is the tree of death. God is Jesus.”
“Idle youth, enslaved to everything; by being too sensitive I have wasted my life.”
“There's more to life than cheek bones.”
“Here was a monument, in fieldstone, to the art of family life.”
“There is no religion in which everyday life is not considered a prison; there is no philosophy or ideology that does not think that we live in alienation.”
“The light of memory, or rather the light that memory lends to things, is the palest light of all. I am not quite sure whether I am dreaming or remembering, whether I have lived my life or dreamed it. Just as dreams do, memory makes me profoundly awar”
“I want peace. I want to see if somewhere there isn't something left in life of charm and grace.”
“Free speech is the whole thing, the whole ball game. Free speech is life itself.”
“It's unbelievable how much you don't know about the game you've been playing all your life.”
“The great menace to the life of an industry is industrial self-complacency.”
“School is not preparation for life, but school is life”
“We don't understand life any better at forty than at twenty, but we know it and admit it”
“Education is a social process; education is growth; education is not a preparation for life but is life itself.”
“The life of a nation is secure only while the nation is honest, truthful, and virtuous”
“To aid life, leaving it free, however, that is the basic task of the educator.”
“I like the dress-up part. In real life, I'm into sweats and never like that, but I do like to get dressed up - like most girls.”
“The search is what anyone would undertake if he were not sunk in the everydayness of his own life. To become aware of the possibility of the search is to be onto something. Not to be onto something is to be in despair.”
“Promise yourself to live your life as a revolution and not just a process of evolution.”
“You can get all A's and still flunk life.”
“Life is a foreign language: all men mispronounce it”
“The problems of puzzles are very near the problems of life, our whole life is solving puzzles. If you are hungry, you have to find something to eat. But everyday problems are very mixed - they're not clear. The Cube's problem depends just on you. You can solve it independently. But to find happiness in life, you're not independent. That's the only big difference.”
“I can think of nothing less pleasurable than a life devoted to pleasure.”
“I would lay down my life to defend any one of the States from aggression, which endangered peace or threatened its institutions. I could do more for the union, but I wish to do more; for the destruction of the union would be the destruction of all the States. A stab in the heart is worse then a cut in a limb, for this may be healed.”
“If life must not be taken too seriously, then so neither must death.”
“Life is like music; it must be composed by ear, feeling, and instinct, not by rule.”
“The cause of violence is not ignorance. It is self-interest. Only reverance can restrain violence - reverance for human life and the environment.”
“Life is fury, he'd thought. Fury — sexual, Oedipal, political, magical, brutal — drives us to our finest heights and coarsest depths. Out of furia comes creation, inspiration, originality, passion, but also violence, pain, pure unafraid destruction, the giving and receiving of blows from which we never recover. The Furies pursue us; Shiva dances his furious dance to create and also to destroy. But never mind about gods! Sara ranting at him represented the human spirit in its purest, least socialized form. This is what we are, what we civilize ourselves to disguise — the terrifying human animal in us, the exalted, transcendent, self-destructive, untramelled lord of creation.”
“Your life and my life flow into each other as wave flows into wave, and unless there is peace and joy and freedom for you, there can be no real peace or joy or freedom for me. To see reality--not as we expect it to be but as it is--is to see that unless we live for each other and in and through each other, we do not really live very satisfactorily; that there can really be life only where there really is, in just this sense, love.”
“The key to immortality is first living a life worth remembering.”
“I live a very dull life here . . . indeed I think I am more like a state prisoner than anything else.”
“Life in common among people who love each other is the ideal of happiness.”
“It is not those innocent of evil who are fullest of the life of God, but those who in their own case have experienced the triumph over evil”
“I really haven't had that exciting of a life. There are a lot of things I wish I would have done, instead of just sitting around and complaining about having a boring life. So I pretty much like to make it up. I'd rather tell a story about somebody else.”
“What is life? An illusion, a shadow, a story, And the greatest good is little enough: for all life is a dream, and dreams themselves are only dreams”
“Life resembles a novel more often than novels resemble life.”
“If a woman has to choose between catching a fly ball and saving an infant's life, she will choose to save the infant's life without even considering if there is a man on base.”
“Christian life consists of faith and charity”
“For every age is fed on illusions, lest men should renounce life early, and the human race come to an end”
“Brigands demand your money or your life; women require both”
“That kind of life is most happy which affords us most opportunities of gaining our own self-esteem”
“We will only understand the miracle of life fully when we allow the unexpected to happen. Every day, G-d gives us the sun-and also one moment in which we have the ability to change everything that makes us unhappy. Every day, we try to pretend that w”
“Life was always a matter of waiting for the right moment to act.”
“Life is like a blanket too short. You pull it up and your toes rebel, you yank it down and shivers meander about your shoulder; but cheerful folks manage to draw their knees up and pass a very comfortable night.”
“An unexamined life is not worth living.”
“To gather with God's people in united adoration of the Father is as necessary to the Christian life as prayer.”
“The art of mastering life is the prerequisite for all further forms of expression, whether they are paintings, sculptures, tragedies, or musical compositions.”
“What is man's ultimate direction in life? It is to look for love, truth, virtue, and beauty”
“After a year in therapy my psychiatrist said to me, "Maybe life isn't for everyone"”
“I think your whole life shows in your face and you should be proud of that.”
“Somehow liberals have been unable to acquire from life what conservatives seem to be endowed with at birth: namely, a healthy skepticism of the powers of government agencies to do good.”
“Life itself still remains a very effective therapist”
“If life isn't about human beings and living in harmony, then I don't know what it's about.”
“Looking at yourself in a mirror isn't exactly a study of life.”
“Because we do not know when we will die, we get to think of life as an inexhaustible well. And yet everything happens only a certain number of times. And a very small number really.”
“If God spare my life, ere many years I will cause a boy who drives the plough to know more of the scriptures than you do”
“Let every dawn be to you as the beginning of life, and every setting sun be to you as its close.”
“Mistakes are part of the dues one pays for a full life.”
“Life is not long, and too much of it must not pass in idle deliberation how it shall be spent.”
“I think people who can truly live a life in music are telling the world, "You can have my love, you can have my smiles. Forget the bad parts, you don't need them. Just take the music, the goodness, because it's the very best, and it's the part I give”
“Give me love, give me peace on earth, give me light, give me life, keep me free from birth, give me hope, help me cope, with this heavy load, trying to, touch and reach you with, heart and soul”
“I need you. I don't know why, but every now and then in my life, for no reason at all, I need you.”
“You, and those like you, take your fill of pleasure on earth by making the life of such as me bitter and black with sorrow; and then it is a fine thing, when you have had enough of that, to think of securing your pleasure in heaven by becoming converted!”
“Even as a coin attains its full value when it is spent, so life attains its supreme value when one knows how to forfeit it with grace when the time comes.”
“It was in the 1920s, when nobody had time to reflect, that I saw a still-life painting with a flower that was perfectly exquisite, but so small you really could not appreciate it.”
“The paradox is really the pathos of intellectual life and just as only great souls are exposed to passions it is only the great thinker who is exposed to what I call paradoxes, which are nothing else than grandiose thoughts in embryo.”
“Your life works to the degree you keep your agreements.”
“Whatever happens in life is fine - just trust in that.”
“The happiness of a man in this life does not consist in the absence but in the mastery of his passions.”
“Seven to eleven is a huge chunk of life, full of dulling and forgetting. It is fabled that we slowly lose the gift of speech with animals, that birds no longer visit our windowsills to converse. As our eyes grow accustomed to sight they armor themselves against wonder.”
“Most things in life are moments of pleasure and a lifetime of embarrassment; photography is a moment of embarrassment and a lifetime of pleasure.”
“I love it when women come up to me and tell me I'm a positive influence on their lives and the lives of their young daughters. That's a great feeling.”
“Poetry is just the evidence of life. If your life is burning well, poetry is just the ash.”
“I've always been spontaneous and outgoing... I've tried lots of things so I've got some good life experiences, which is great 'cause it means I've got lots of material to work with as an actor.”
“The main thing for me is to just live life with my family and friends. They treat me like Leo, not like 'Leonardo, Master Thespian.' That's all I need to keep my sanity.”
“If you don't program yourself, life will program you!”
“In real life, I assure you, there is no such thing as algebra.”
“The only way to enjoy anything in this life is to earn it first”
“In life, as in football, you won't go far unless you know where the goalposts are.”
“Life, as the most ancient of all metaphors insists, is a journey; and the travel book, in its deceptive simulation of the journey's fits and starts, rehearses life's own fragmentation. More even than the novel, it embraces the contingency of things.”
“Life is divided into three terms - that which was, which is, and which will be. Let us learn from the past to profit by the present, and from the present to live better in the future.”
“Life is something to do when you can't get to sleep”
“Baseball was one-hundred percent of my life.”
“It is not a choice of life, it is a choice of death. If this is life, I'd rather die.”
“Is not that a great principle for all of living? The people who will really accomplish great things in life are those who are willing to discipline their lives, who maintain their health, their vitality, their efficiency through this process of rigorous disciplining of what they take into their bodies and what they do in life. It's a very important thing in terms of championship living.”
“Neither one should hesitate about dedicating oneself to philosophy when young, nor should get tired of doing it when one's old, because no one is ever too young or too old to reach one's soul's healthy.”
“If you can't create physical life, you find a life force. If that's in music, that's in music. I started to find this deep, primitive rhythm, and I started to move to it. And I held hands with sorrow, and I danced with her, and we giggled a bit.”
“Theater is, of course, a reflection of life. Maybe we have to improve life before we can hope to improve theater.”
“You are young and life is long and there is time to kill today. 
And then one day you find ten years have got behind you. 
No one told you when to run, you missed the starting gun.”
“Life is a paradox, you're damned if you do and damned if you don't”
“I'm a big believer in therapy. I'm in therapy in real life. I think anytime you can bitch and moan about your own life to someone who really doesn't care that much, and can give you an objective opinion about what you're going through, I think that's valuable.”
“I have two ambitions in life: one is to drink every pub dry, the other is to sleep with every woman on earth.”
“I would not give a fig for the simplicity this side of complexity, but I would give my life for the simplicity on the other side of complexity.”
“The courage to imagine the otherwise is our greatest resource, adding color and suspense to all our life.”
“The leaders I met, whatever walk of life they were from, whatever institutions they were presiding over, always referred back to the same failure something that happened to them that was personally difficult, even traumatic, something that made them feel that desperate sense of hitting bottom--as something they thought was almost a necessity. It's as if at that moment the iron entered their soul; that moment created the resilience that leaders need.”
“Others live on in a careless and lukewarm state - not appearing to fill Longfellow's measure: 'Into each life, some rain must fall.'”
“We know less about the sexual life of little girls than of boys. But we need not feel ashamed of this distinction; after all, the sexual life of adult women is a ''dark continent'' for psychology.”
“It moves me when anybody is just wandering through life, sleepwalking, and then wakes up. It's like the caterpillar to butterfly thing - the chrysalis. It's just so moving because they're not going to go to their grave with a slipping down life.”
“The values a man must cherish as his life-breath are, Truth, Righteousness, Peace, Love and Non violence.”
“When work is a pleasure, life is a joy! When work is a duty, life is slavery.”
“A broken heart is what makes life so wonderful five years later, when you see that special guy in an elevator and he is fat and smoking and saying 'Long time no see'”
“Yes, as my swift days near their goal, 'tis all that I implore: In life and death a chainless soul, with courage to endure.”
“I've dreamt in my life dreams that have stayed with me ever after, and changed my ideas; they've gone through and through me, like wine through water, and altered the colour of my mind.”
“Probably the toughest time in anyone's life is when you have to murder a loved one because they're the devil.”
“Life doesn't run away from nobody. Life runs at people.”
“Life is short; live it up.”
“The law does not expect a man to be prepared to defend every act of his life which may be suddenly and without notice alleged against him”
“Stand firm in your refusal to remain conscious during algebra. In real life, I assure you, there is no such thing as algebra.”
“It is not reason which is the guide of life, but custom.”
“There is no part of my life, upon which I can look back without pain”
“The witty woman is a tragic figure in American life. Wit destroys eroticism and eroticism destroys wit, so women must choose between taking lovers and taking no prisoners.”
“Life is a wretched gray Saturday, but it has to be lived through.”
“There is something that Governments care for far more than human life, and that is the security of property, and so it is through property that we shall strike the enemy. Be militant each in your own way. I incite this meeting to rebellion.”
“The fear of life is the favorite disease of the twentieth century”
“Please do not have a fit in the fitting room. Your fashion life begins there.”
“Without human values, life is meaningless.”
“Life is a moderately good play with a badly written third act.”
“Life is what happens to you while you're making other plans.”
“If you're bored with life - you don't get up every morning with a burning desire to do things - you don't have enough goals.”
“A photograph can be an instant of life captured for eternity that will never cease looking back at you.”
“The demand for equal rights in every vocation of life is just and fair; but, after all, the most vital right is the right to love and be loved.”
“I love living. I have some problems with my life, but living is the best thing they've come up with so far.”
“For me life is continuously being hungry. The meaning of life is not simply to exist, to survive, but to move ahead, to go up, to achieve, to conquer.”
“I really wanted to die at certain periods in my life. Death was like love, a romantic escape. I took pills because I didn't want to throw myself off my balcony and know people would photograph me lying dead below.”
“Simplicity of life, even the barest, is not a misery, but the very foundation of refinement; a sanded floor and whitewashed walls and the green trees, and flowery meads, and living waters outside.”
“Be yourself, take control of your life.”
“Success in life is founded upon attention to the small things rather than to the large things; to the every day things nearest to us rather than to the things that are remote and uncommon.”
“You don't merely give over your creativity to making a film -- you give over your life! In theatre, by contrast, you live these two rather strange lives simultaneously; you have no option but to confront the mould on last night's washing-up.”
“I don't care what you say anymore, this is my life
Go ahead with your own life and leave me alone.”
“Beth could not reason upon or explain the faith that gave her courage and patience to give up life, and cheerfully wait for death. Like a confiding child, she asked no questions, but left everything to God and nature, Father and Mother of us all, feeling sure that they, and they only, could teach and strengthen heart and spirit for this life and the life to come.”
“Real misanthropes are not found in solitude, but in the world; since it is experience of life, and not philosophy, which produces real hatred of mankind”
“Eating is not merely a material pleasure. Eating well gives a spectacular joy to life and contributes immensely to goodwill and happy companionship. It is of great importance to the morale.”
“What we call reality is an agreement that people have arrived at to make life more livable.”
“It is old age, rather than death, that is to be contrasted with life. Old age is life's parody, whereas death transforms life into a destiny: in a way it preserves it by giving it the absolute dimension. Death does away with time.”
“I'm not going to be somebody who wants to hold on to my fame for the rest of my life.”
“If the unexamined life is not worth living, the unexamined past is not worth possessing; it bears fruit only by being held continuously up to the light, and is as changeable and as full of surprises, pleasant and unpleasant, as the future”
“No one who has come to true greatness has not felt in some degree that his life belongs to the people, and what God has given them he gives it for mankind.”
“It is not in giving life but in risking life that man is raised above the animal; that is why superiority has been accorded in humanity not to the sex that brings forth but to that which kills.”
“Mistakes are a fact of life. It is the response to the error that counts.”
“Later in my life, I'm going to look back and smile and be very fulfilled. I know that if I don't give it my all right now I'll regret it later. That's very important to me, because I've worked all my life to have this.”
“Human life has dignity at every age; the taking of innocent human life is always wrong. I believe our nation at every level of government must reject any scheme to permit or promote assisted suicide and euthanasia. We must encourage new efforts to assist patients approaching the end of life to cope with their pain through medical, psychological, and social means.”
“Life is not life unless you make mistakes”
“The rhythm of the weekend, with its birth, its planned gaieties, and its announced end, followed the rhythm of life and was a substitute for it.”
“A different language is a different vision of life.”
“A well-ordered life is like climbing a tower; the view halfway up is better than the view from the base, and it steadily becomes finer as the horizon expands.”
“Life to me is a journey - you never know what may be your next destination”
“I wish that every human life might be pure transparent freedom”
“Real life isn't always going to be perfect or go our way, but the recurring acknowledgement of what is working in our lives can help us not only to survive but surmount our difficulties.”
“Men do not understand books until they have had a certain amount of life, until they have seen and lived at least part of their contents”
“One hour of life, crowded to the full with glorious action, and filled with noble risks, is worth whole years of those mean observances of paltry decorum”
“The time comes in the life of any nation when there remains only two choices - submit or fight. That time has now come to South Africa. We shall not submit and we have no choice but to hit back by all means in our power in defense of our people, our”
“The Constitution of the United States is not a mere lawyers' document: it is a vehicle of life, and its spirit is always the spirit of the age”
“Be regular and orderly in your life, so that you may be violent and original in your work.”
“It is well worth the efforts of a life-time to have attained knowledge which justifies an attack on the root of all evil . . . which asserts that because forms of evil have always existed in society, therefore they must always exist . . .”
“Life is not tried, it is merely survived if your standing outside the fire”
“Mother can't you see I've got to live my life the way I feel is right for me might not be right for you but it's right for me...”
“I want to walk through life instead of being dragged through it.”
“Change your life today. Don't gamble on the future, act now, without delay.”
“Sometimes things work out on the golf course and sometimes they don't. Life will go on. You try to understand what happens, but maybe today I don't want to know. I just screwed up so maybe I should just put it behind me.”
“For those who seek to understand it, death is a highly creative force. The highest spiritual values of life can originate from the thought and study of death.”
“Symbolism is no mere idle fancy or corrupt egerneration: it is inherent in the very texture of human life”
“Life can then little else supply but a few good fucks and then you die.”
“The new man is born too old to tolerate the new world. The present conditions of life have not yet erased the traces of the past. We run too fast, but we still do not move enough. He looks but he does not contemplate, he sees but he does not think. He runs away from time, which is made of thought, and yet all he can feel is his own time, the present.”
“We can consciously end our life almost anytime we choose. This ability is an endowment, like laughing and blushing, given to no other animal... in any given moment, by not exercising the option of suicide, we are choosing to live.”
“Death is not an event in life: we do not live to experience death. If we take eternity to mean not infinite temporal duration but timelessness, then eternal life belongs to those who live in the present.”
“In the stress of modern life, how little room is left for that most comfortable vanity that whispers in our ears that failures are not faults! Now we are taught from infancy that we must rise or fall upon our own merits; that vigilance wins success, and incapacity means ruin.”
“Courage is the price that life exacts for granting peace.”
“Life is occupied in both perpetuating itself and in surpassing itself; if all it does is maintain itself, then living is only not dying”
“My rule of life prescribed as an absolutely sacred rite smoking cigars and also the drinking of alcohol before, after and if need be during all meals and in the intervals between them.”
“So many tangles in life are ultimately hopeless that we have no appropriate sword other than laughter.”
“Very early, I knew that the only object in life was to grow.”
“The meaning of life is contained in every single expression of life. It is present in the infinity of forms and phenomena that exist in all of creation.”
“I've failed over and over and over again in my life and that is why I succeed.”
“The course of life in unpredictable. No one can write his autobiography in advance.”
“A sheltered life can be a daring life as well. For all serious daring starts from within.”
“Evil, what is evil? There is only one evil, to deny life.”
“Violence commands both literature and life, and violence is always crude and distorted.”
“To revolt is a natural tendency of life. Even a worm turns against the foot that crushes it. In general, the vitality and relative dignity of an animal can be measured by the intensity of its instinct to revolt.”
“The Master of Life's been good to me. He has given me strength to face past illnesses, and victory in the face of defeat. He has given me life and joy where other saw oblivion. He Has given new purpose to live for, new services to render and old wounds to heal.
Life and love go on, let the music play.”
“We can always choose to perceive things differently. You can focus on what's wrong in your life, or you can focus on what's right.”
“A life spent in constant labor is a life wasted, save a man be such a fool as to regard a fulsome obituary notice as ample reward.”
“It's not your blue blood, your pedigree or your college degree. It's what you do with your life that counts.”
“Life is full of obstacle illusions.”
“Life has no meaning any more does it? The wine has no taste, the food sickens you, there seems no 
reason for any of it, does there? But what if I could give it back to you. Pluck out the pain, and give you 
another life, one you could never imagine, and it would be for all time. And sickness and death could 
never touch you again. 
Don't be afraid, I'm going to give you the choice, I, never, had.”
“Think of yourself as on the threshold of unparalleled success. A whole, clear, glorious life lies before you. Achieve! Achieve!”
“God has plans which mortals don't understand. He rests in the womb when the new baby forms. Whispers the life dream to infinitesimal cells. It is God who lies under the thoughts of man. He is cartilage. Memory.”
“I don't care if you don't care”
“It's something unpredictable, but in the end is right. I hope you had the time of your life.”
“Starting out to make money is the greatest mistake in life. Do what you feel you have a flair for doing, and if you are good enough at it, the money will come.”
“All my life I have tried to pluck a thistle and plant a flower wherever the flower would grow in thought and mind.”
“Punk is not just the sound, the music. Punk is a life-style. There are a lot of bands around who claim to be punk and they only play the music, they have no clue what it's all about. It's a life-style I chose for myself.”
“Life would be so wonderful if we only knew what to do with it.”
“I dreamed I had a child, and even in the dream I saw it was my life, and it was an idiot, and I ran away. But it always crept on to my lap again, clutched at my clothes. Until I thought, if I could kiss it, whatever in it is my own, perhaps I could s”
“Lord, how the day passes! It is like a life, so quickly when we don't watch it, and so slowly if we do.”
“In fighting and in everyday life you should be determined though calm. Meet the situation without tenseness yet not recklessly, your spirit settled yet unbiased. An elevated spirit is weak and a low spirit is weak. Do not let the enemy see your spirit.”
“Your school may have done away with winners and losers, but life has not. In some schools they have abolished failing grades; they'll give you as many chances as you want to get the right answer. This doesn't bear the slightest resemblance to ANYTHIN”
“The mystical life is the centre of all that I do and all that I think and all that I write. . . .”
“Life is too short, and the time we waste in yawning never can be regained”
“For anyone is an upstart who rises by his own efforts from his previous position in life to a higher one.”
“For everything that lives is holy, life delights in life”
“I like to behave in an extremely normal, wholesome manner for the most part in my daily life. Even if mentally I'm consumed with sick visions of violence, terror, sex and death.”
“Life is not divided into semesters. You don't get summers off and very few employers are interested in helping you find yourself.”
“The eternal mystery of the world is its comprehensibility.”
“To deprive a man of his natural liberty and to deny to him the ordinary amenities of life is worse then starving the body; it is starvation of the soul the dweller in the body.”
“Writing is a dog's life, but the only life worth living.”
“Every unpunished murder takes away something from the security of every man's life”
“In societies where modern conditions of production prevail, all of life presents itself as an immense accumulation of spectacles. Everything that was directly lived has moved away into a representation.”
“How does a kid from Coos Bay, with one leg longer than the other win races? All my life people have been telling me, 'Your too small Pre', 'Your not fast enough Pre', 'Give up your foolish dream Steve'. But they forgot something, I HAVE TO WIN.”
“Life is an incurable disease”
“Variety is the spice of life”
“The style of life is a unity because it has grown out of the difficulties of early life and out of the striving for a goal.”
“He loved me well: so well he could but die - To show he loved me better than his life; he lost it for me”
“Most of American life consists of driving somewhere and then returning home, wondering why the hell you went.”
“The measure of a life, after all, is not its duration, but its donation.”
“Nothing is more beautiful than the love that has weathered the storms of life. The love of the young for the young, that is the beginning of life. But the love of the old for the old, that is the beginning of things longer.”
“Let your boat of life be light, packed with only what you need - a homely home and simple pleasures, one or two friends, worth the name, someone to love and someone to love you, a cat, a dog, and a pipe or two, enough to eat and enough to wear, and a little more than enough to drink; for thirst is a dangerous thing.”
“By respect for life we become religious in a way that is elementary, profound and alive.”
“Quality questions create a quality life. Successful people ask better questions, and as a result, they get better answers.”
“We are such stuff as dreams are made of, and our little life is rounded with a sleep.”
“Life every man holds dear; but the dear man holds honor far more precious than life”
“The greatest justice in life is to be who one is.”
“You will live your life secure in that you are no longer manipulated by what other people want you to do and be, but are directed by your own inner desires.”
“The only rule is don't be boring and dress cute wherever you go. Life is too short to blend in.”
“Every woman should have four pets in her life. A mink in her closet, a jaguar in her garage, a tiger in her bed, and a jackass who pays for everything.”
“If life were fair, Dan Quayle would be making a living asking 'Do you want fries with that?'”
“Lust is to the other passions what the nervous fluid is to life; it supports them all, lends strength to them all ambition, cruelty, avarice, revenge, are all founded on lust.”
“My faith has been the driving thing of my life. I think it is important that people who are perceived as liberals not be afraid of talking about moral and community values.”
“Life is the game that must be played, this truth at least, good friends, we know; so live and laugh, nor be dismayed as one by one the phantoms go.”
“Literacy is a bridge from misery to hope. It is a tool for daily life in modern society. It is a bulwark against poverty, and a building block of development, an essential complement to investments in roads, dams, clinics and factories. Literacy is a platform for democratization, and a vehicle for the promotion of cultural and national identity. Especially for girls and women, it is an agent of family health and nutrition. For everyone, everywhere, literacy is, along with education in general, a basic human right.... Literacy is, finally, the road to human progress and the means through which every man, woman and child can realize his or her full potential.”
“Let me give you a definition of ethics: It is good to maintain and further life it is bad to damage and destroy life.”
“There is no short cut to achievement. Life requires thorough preparation -- veneer isn't worth anything.”
“And the tree was happy”
“There is a vitality, a life force, an energy, a quickening, that is translated through you into action, and because there is only one of you in all time, this expression is unique.”
“The garden is a metaphor for life, and gardening is a symbol of the spiritual path.”
“Life is a long preparation for something that never happens”
“Poetry is life distilled.”
“Tattoos are like stories - they're symbolic of the important moments in your life. Sitting down, talking about where you got each tattoo and what it symbolizes, is really beautiful.”
“A large volume of adventures may be grasped within this little span of life, by him who interests his heart in everything.”
“If I were to name the three most precious resources of life, I should say books, friends, and nature; and the greatest of these, at least the most constant and always at hand, is nature.”
“Life finds its purpose and fulfillment in the expansion of happiness.”
“The facts of life are that a child who has seen war cannot be compared with a child who doesn't know what war is except from television.”
“I would rather live in a world where my life is surrounded by mystery than live in a world so small that my mind could comprehend it.”
“Life is a brief, small, and transitory phenomenon in an obscure corner, not at all the sort of thing that one would make a fuss about if one were not personally concerned”
“Life is not an easy matter... You cannot live through it without falling into frustration and cynicism unless you have before you a great idea which raises you above personal misery, above weakness, above all kinds of perfidy and baseness.”
“We all have ghosts, remorse, dreams, things we love and hate. One day something in life - a word, a phrase, something in a book, a beautiful woman - clicks, and part of that world takes on a special meaning. And you realize you have a story to tell.”
“Why am I so soft in the middle when the rest of my life is so hard?”
“Blessed is the man that endureth temptation: for when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him.”
“It is your work in life that is the ultimate seduction.”
“It takes a long time to become young.”
“A sound heart is the life of the flesh: but envy the rottenness of the bones (Proverbs 14:30).”
“I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me.”
“Curiosity about life in all of its aspects, I think, is still the secret of great creative people.”
“Don't let anyone persuade you that anything we do in life less than our own best, is a worthy thing. You must never compromise with your life. We know when we are doing first-rate things. When we satisfy ourselves with second-rate things, it is the beginning of a long, long death. We die from that minute.”
“You can map your life through your favorite movies, and no two people's maps will be the same.”
“The universe contains vastly more order than Earth-life could ever demand. All those distant galaxies, irrelevant for our existence, seem as equally well ordered as our own.”
“I mean to live my life an obedient man, but obedient to God, subservient to the wisdom of my ancestors; never to the authority of political truths arrived at yesterday at the voting booth.”
“There can be no situation in life in which the conversation of my dear sister will not administer some comfort to me.”
“All Life death does end and each day dies with sleep”
“There are more serious problems in life than financial ones, and I've had a lot of those. I've been broke before, and will be again.”
“A woman's life is a history of the affections”
“A man either lives life as it happens to him, meets it head-on and licks it, or he turns his back on it and starts to wither away.”
“The LORD is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? the LORD is the strength of my life; of whom shall I be afraid (Psalms 27:1)?”
“Parents can only give good advice or put them on the right paths, but the final forming of a person's character lies in their own hands.”
“I hate journalists. There is nothing in them but tittering jeering emptiness. They have all made what Dante calls the Great Refusal. . . . The shallowest people on the ridge of the earth.”
“I'd like to introduce someone who has just come into my life. I've admired him for 35 years. He's someone who represents integrity, honesty, art, and on top of that stuff I'm actually sleeping with him.”
“Parrots, tortoises and redwoods live a longer life than men do; Men a longer life than dogs do; Dogs a longer life than love does.”
“Life is about timing.”
“Law students are trained in the case method, and to the lawyer everything in life looks like a case.”
“I learned that the richness of life is found in adventure. . . . It develops self-reliance and independence. Life then teems with excitement. There is stagnation only in security.”
“Self-respect permeates every aspect of your life.”
“The forgotten man. . . . He works, he votes, generally he prays, but his chief business in life is to pay.”
“The soldier is summoned to a life of active duty and so is the Christian.”
“What sweetness is left in life, if you take away friendship? Robbing life of friendship is like robbing the world of the sun. A true friend is more to be esteemed than kinsfolk.”
“Sleep after toil, port after stormy seas, Ease after war, death after life does greatly please”
“It is too great comfort which turns a man against himself. Life is most readily renounced at the time and among the classes where it is least harsh.”
“We all pay for life with death, so everything in between should be free.”
“I began to have an idea of my life, not as slow shaping of achievement to fit my preconceived purposes, but as the gradual discovery and growth of a purpose which I did not know”
“Nearly all the best things that came to me in life have been unexpected, unplanned by me.”
“For them that think death's honesty won't fall upon them naturally life sometimes must get lonely.”
“"To me it's not a ... This is my ... This is my ... I was going to say this is my life. It's not my life, but it is a very important part of my life."
[On the Harry Potter Books]”
“The most important thing in life is not to capitalize on your gains. Any fool can do that. The really important thing is to profit from your losses. That requires intelligence; and it makes the difference between a man of sense and a fool.”
“Life is the only real counselor; wisdom unfiltered through personal experience does not become a part of the moral tissue.”
“Arise, and soar with the sun’s new-born rays,
To breathe new life into dying nights and days.”
“Whether our efforts are, or not, favored by life, let us be able to say, when we come near the great goal, "I have done what I could”
“If you had your life to live over again, do it overseas.”
“Imagination and fiction make up more than three-quarters of our real life”
“Although we human beings have our own personal life, we are yet in large measure the representatives, the victims and promoters of a collective spirit whose years are counted in centuries. We can well think all our lives long that we are following our own noses, and may never discover that we are, for the most part, supernumeraries on the stage of the world theatre.”
“Dr. Miller says we are pessimistic because life seems like a very bad, very screwed-up film. If you ask "What the hell is wrong with the projector?" and go up to the control room, you find it's empty. You are the projectionist, and you should have been up there all the time.”
“Life is a predicament which precedes death”
“Imagination is always the fabric of social life and the dynamic of history. The influence of real needs and compulsions, of real interests and materials, is indirect because the crowd is never conscious of it.”
“When it's over, I want to say: all my life I was a bride married to amazement. I was the bridegroom, taking the world into my arms.”
“I really lived life to its fullest and that got me in trouble from time to time.”
“Much violence is based on the illusion that life is a property to be defended and not to be shared.”
“When a man's life is destroyed or damaged by some wound or privation of soul or body, which is due to other men's actions or negligence, it is not only his sensibility that suffers but also his aspiration toward the good. Therefore there has been sacrilege towards that which is sacred in him.”
“At every crisis in one's life, it is absolute salvation to have some sympathetic friend to whom you can think aloud without restraint or misgiving.”
“As if we can ever imagine the past, future, life on other planets, everything is such an extension, such a projection of life as we know it.”
“The heyday of woman's life is the shady side of fifty.”
“One hour of life, crowded to the full with glorious action, and filled with noble risks, is worth whole years of those mean observances of paltry decorum, in which men steal through existence, like sluggish waters through a marsh, without either honor or observation.”
“Death and life have their determined appointments; riches and honours depend upon heaven.”
“The human soul, as a part of the movement of life, is endowed with the ability to participate in the uplift, elevation, perfection, and completion.”
“Philosophy means nothing unless it is connected to birth, death, and the continuance of life. Anytime you are going to build a society that works, you have to begin from nature and the body.”
“Say not that honor is the child of boldness, nor believe thou that the hazard of life alone can pay the price of it: it is not to the action that it is due, but to the manner of performing it.”
“If many years were added to my life, I would give fifty to the study of the Book of Changes and might thereby manage to avoid great mistakes.”
“Alcohol is the cause and the solution to many of life's problems.”
“From the viewpoint of absolute truth, what we feel and experience in our ordinary daily life is all delusion. Of all the various delusions, the sense of discrimination between oneself and others is the worst form, as it creates nothing but unpleasant”
“I, on the other hand, am a fully-rounded human being, with a degree from the University of Life, a diploma from the School of Hard Knocks, and three gold stars from the Kindergarten of Getting the Shit Kicked Out of Me”
“Although she feeds me bread of bitterness,/ And sinks into my throat her tiger's tooth,/ Stealing my breath of life, I will confess/ I love this cultured hell that tests my youth!”
“I think Superman should go on the Larry King show and announce that he would come back to life if people in all 50 states wanted him to.”
“Where life is colorful and varied, religion can be austere or unimportant. Where life is appallingly monotonous, religion must be emotional, dramatic and intense. Without the curry, boiled rice can be very dull.”
“Life is like a cobweb, not an organization chart.”
“Left-handers have more enthusiasm for life. They sleep on the wrong side of the bed, and their head gets more stagnant on that side.”
“Winners are people with definite purpose in life.”
“I misremember who first was cruel enough to nurture the cocktail party into life. But perhaps it would be not too much to say, in fact it would be not enough to say, that it was not worth the trouble.”
“I've had smarter people around me all my life, but I haven't run into one yet that can outwork me. And if they can't outwork you, then smarts aren't going to do them much good. That's just the way it is. And if you believe that and live by it, you'd be surprised at how much fun you can have.”
“The world has never yet seen a truly great and virtuous nation because in the degradation of woman the very fountains of life are poisoned at their source.”
“The feeling of inferiority rules the mental life and can be clearly recognized in the sense of incompleteness and un-fulfillment, and in the uninterrupted struggle both of individuals and humanity.”
“All my life I've been harassed by questions: Why is something this way and not another? How do you account for that? This rage to understand, to fill in the blanks, only makes life more banal. If we could only find the courage to leave our destiny to chance, to accept the fundamental mystery of our lives, then we might be closer to the sort of happiness that comes with innocence.”
“Life without absorbing occupation is hell - joy consists in forgetting life”
“Life beats down and crushes the soul and art reminds you that you have one.”
“Youth would be an ideal state if it came a little later in life.”
“I felt as if I were walking with destiny, and that all my past life had been but a preparation for this hour and this trial.”
“I wish more people felt that photography was an adventure the same as life itself and felt that their individual feelings were worth expressing. To me, that makes photography more exciting.”
“I never held a council of war in my life. I heard what men had to say - the stream of talk at headquarters - but I made up my own mind, and from my written orders my staff got their first knowledge of what was to be done. No living man knew of plans”
“Our minds are finite, and yet even in these circumstances of finitude we are surrounded by possibilities that are infinite, and the purpose of life is to grasp as much as we can out of that infinitude”
“Writing, at its best, is a lonely life. Organizations for writers palliate the writer's loneliness, but I doubt if they improve his writing. He grows in public stature as he sheds his loneliness and often his work deteriorates. For he does his work a”
“If I had my way, if I was lucky enough, if I could be on the brink my entire life— that great sense of expectation and excitement without the disappointment— that would be the perfect state.”
“Well, baseball was my whole life. Nothing's ever been as fun as baseball.”
“Suffering is the substance of life and the root of personality, for it is only suffering that makes us persons.”
“[Gatsby] wanted to recover something, some idea of himself perhaps, that had gone into loving Daisy. His life had been confused and disordered since then, but if he could once return to a certain starting place and go over it all slowly, he could find out what that thing was.”
“Atheism is rather in the life than in the heart of man”
“Think and feel yourself there! To achieve any aim in life, you need to project the end-result. Think of the elation, the satisfaction, the joy! Carrying the ecstatic feeling will bring the desired goal into view.”
“Remember that you are an Englishman, and have consequently won first prize in the lottery of life”
“It is my aim, and every effort bent, that the sum and history of my life, which in the same sentence is my obit and epitaph too, shall be them both: He made the books and he died.”
“The secret to a long life is to stay busy, get plenty of exercise and don't drink too much. Then again, don't drink too little.”
“We're all given some sort of skill in life. Mine just happens to be beating up on people.”
“One should part from life as Odysseus parted from Nausicaa: with a blessing rather than in love”
“My tragic view of life... leads me to have little patience with the chronic complaining I hear in modern society from people who have so much yet act as if life and society have conspired to oppress them.”
“Life is best enjoyed when time periods are evenly divided between labor, sleep, and recreation...all people should spend one-third of their time in recreation which is rebuilding, voluntary activity, never idleness.”
“It is courage, courage, courage, that raises the blood of life to crimson splendor. Live bravely and present a brave front to adversity.”
“To have courage for whatever comes in life - everything lies in that.”
“Spice is life. It depends upon what you like... have fun with it. Yes, food is serious, but you should have fun with it.”
“For the ordinary man is passive. Within a narrow circle (home life, and perhaps the trade unions or local politics) he feels himself master of his fate, but against major events he is as helpless as against the elements. So far from endeavoring to influence the future, he simply lies down and lets things happen to him.”
“Most people get a fair amount of fun out of their lives, but on balance life is suffering, and only the very young or very foolish imagine otherwise”
“Life is a series of dogs”
“Life has meaning only in the struggle. Triumph or defeat is in the hands of the Gods. So let us celebrate the struggle!”
“Those whose only aim is to barter the energies of life for gold, or name, or any other enjoyment; those to whom the tramp of embattled cohorts is the only manifestation of power; those to whom the enjoyment of the senses is the only bliss that life c”
“America stands for liberty, for the pursuit of happiness and for the unalienable right for life. This right to life cannot be granted or denied by government because it does not come from government, it comes from the creator of life.”
“Your success story is a bigger story than whatever you're trying to say on stage. . . . Success makes life easier. It doesn't make living easier.”
“What a life! True life is elsewhere. We are not in the world.”
“I don't like to share my personal life... it wouldn't be personal if I shared it.”
“What would life be without arithmetic, but a scene of horrors?”
“How do you live a long life? ''Take a two-mile walk every morning before breakfast.''”
“Once I knew only darkness and stillness...my life was without past or future...but a little word from the fingers of another fell into my hand that clutched at emptiness, and my heart leaped to the rapture of living.”
“The richness of life lies in the memories we have forgotten.”
“An enchanted life has many moments when the heart is overwhelmed with beauty and the imagination is electrified by some haunting quality in the world or by a spirit or voice speaking from deep within a thing, a place, or a person. Enchantment may be”
“The follies which a man regrets most in his life, are those which he didn't commit when he had the opportunity.”
“A poor life this if, full of care, we have no time to stand and stare.”
“The stabbing horror of life is not contained in calamities and disasters, because these things wake one up and one gets very familiar and intimate with them and finally they become tame again. No, it is more like being in a hotel room in Hoboken let us say, and just enough money in one's pocket for another meal.”
“A man writes to throw off the poison which he has accumulated because of his false way of life. He is trying to recapture his innocence, yet all he succeeds in doing (by writing) is to inoculate the world with a virus of his disillusionment. No man would set a word down on paper if he had the courage to live out what he believed in.”
“A book is a part of life, a manifestation of life, just as much as a tree or a horse or a star. It obeys its own rhythms, its own laws, whether it be a novel, a play, or a diary. The deep, hidden rhythm of life is always there / that of the pulse, the heart beat.”
“What is peculiar in the life of a man consists not in his obedience, but his opposition, to his instincts. In one direction or another he strives to live a supernatural life.”
“The way in which men cling to old institutions after the life has departed out of them, and out of themselves, reminds me of those monkeys which cling by their tails -- aye, whose tails contract about the limbs, even the dead limbs, of the forest, and they hang suspended beyond the hunter's reach long after they are dead. It is of no use to argue with such men. They have not an apprehensive intellect, but merely, as it were a prehensile tail.”
“Every man is tasked to make his life, even in its details, worthy of the contemplation of his most elevated and critical hour”
“'Tisn't life that matters! 'Tis the courage you bring to it.”
“The life-fate of the modern individual depends not only upon the family into which he was born or which he enters by marriage, but increasingly upon the corporation in which he spends the most alert hours of his best years.”
“Timing, degree and conviction are the three wise men in this life.”
“Pain is life - the sharper, the more evidence of life”
“For this generation, ours, life is nuclear survival, liberty is human rights, the pursuit of happiness is a planet whose resources are devoted to the physical and spiritual nourishment of its inhabitants.”
“All blame is a waste of time. No matter how much fault you find with another, and regardless of how much you blame him, it will not change you. The only thing blame does is to keep the focus off you when you are looking for external reasons to explain your unhappiness or frustration. You may succeed in making another feel guilty about something by blaming him, but you won't succeed in changing whatever it is about you that is making you unhappy.”
“Affirmation of life is the spiritual act by which man ceases to live unreflectively and begins to devote himself to his life with reverence in order to raise it to its true value. To affirm life is to deepen, to make more inward, and to exalt the wil”
“Hold fast to dreams for if dreams die, life is a broken winged bird that cannot fly.”
“Man must feel the earth to know himself and recognize his values... God made life simple. It is man who complicates it.”
“Limitations live only in our minds. But if we use our imaginations, our possibilities become limitless.”
“You are invited to the festival of this world and your life is blessed”
“Death belongs to life as birth does. The walk is in the raising of the foot as in the laying of it down.”
“Just because swans mate for life, I don't think its that big a deal. First of all, if you're a swan, you're probably not going to find a swan that looks much better than the one you've got, so why not mate for life?”
“Authentic values are those by which a life can be lived, which can form a people that produces great deeds and thoughts.”
“I would rather have eyes that cannot see; ears that cannot hear; lips that cannot speak, than a heart that cannot love”
“Big sisters are the crabgrass in the lawn of life.”
“I'm so tired, but I can't sleep...standing on the edge of something much too deep...funny how I feel so much but cannot say a word...we are screaming inside, oh, but we can't be heard...so afraid to love you, more afraid to lose...clinging to a past”
“To laugh often and much; to win the respect of intelligent people and the affection of children; to earn the appreciation of honest critics and endure the betrayal of false friends; to appreciate beauty; to find the best in others; to leave the world a bit better, whether by a healthy child, a garden patch or a redeemed social condition; to know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived. This is to have succeeded.”
“Human life must be some form of mistake”
“To know nothing is the happiest life”
“Be upright in thy whole life; be content in all its changes;so shalt thou make thy profit out of all occurrences; so shall everything that happeneth unto thee be the source of praise”
“When you feel that you have reached the end and that you cannot go one step further, when life seems to be drained of all purpose: What a wonderful opportunity o start all over again, to turn over a new page.”
“If someone hurts you, take a moment for the pain, learn the lesson from it and make your life better than before.”
“Life is not a matter of place, things or comfort; rather, it concerns the basic human rights of family, country, justice and human dignity.”
“Learn from yesterday, live for today, hope for tomorrow. The important thing is not to stop questioning.”
“Nonviolence is the supreme law of life.”
“Bitterness imprisons life; love releases it. Bitterness paralyzes life; love empowers it. Bitterness sours life; love sweetens it. Bitterness sickens life; love heals it. Bitterness blinds life; love anoints its eyes.”
“What is important in life is life, and not the result of life.”
“Nothing is more highly to be prized than the value of each day”
“In the last analysis, it is our conception of death which decides our answers to all the questions that life puts to us”
“Life is the childhood of our immortality.”
“I have never smuggled anything in my life. Why, then, do I feel an uneasy sense of guilt on approaching a customs barrier?”
“True happiness is the full use of your powers along lines of excellence in a life affording scope.”
“The making of friends who are real friends, is the best token we have of a man's success in life.”
“A feast is made for laughter, and wine makes life merry, but money is the answer for everything”
“There is always inequity in life. Some men are killed in a war and some men are wounded, and some men never leave the country, and some men are stationed in the Antarctic and some are stationed in San Francisco. It’s very hard in military or in personal life to assure complete equality. Life is unfair.”
“If your daily life seems poor, do not blame it; blame yourself, tell yourself that you are not poet enough to call forth its riches”
“Time goes by, life goes on, and all I can think of is why you're gone”
“It was not... that she was unaware of the frayed and ragged edges of life. She would merely iron them out with a firm hand and neatly hem them down.”
“It is a good rule in life never to apologize. The right sort of people do not want apologies, and the wrong sort take a mean advantage of them.”
“The rule of my life is to make business a pleasure, and pleasure my business.”
“We live everything as it comes, without warning, like an actor going on cold. And what can life be worth if the first rehearsal for life is life itself? That is why life is always a sketch. No sketch is not quite the right word, because a sketch is an outline of something, the groundwork for a picture, whereas the sketch that is our life is a sketch of nothing, an outline with no picture.”
“If you deny yourself commitment, what can you do with your life?”
“By religion I mean a set of beliefs held as dogmas, dominating the conduct of life, going beyond or contrary to evidence, and inculcated by methods which are emotional or authoritarian, not intellectual”
“Everything in life is luck.”
“The theme of the Grail is the bringing of life into what is known as 'the wasteland.' The wasteland is the preliminary theme to which the Grail is the answer. It's the world of people living inauthentic lives - doing what they are supposed to do.”
“Have a heart that never hardens, and a temper that never tires, and a touch that never hurts.”
“Great minds discuss ideas; Average minds discuss events; Small minds discuss people”
“The best, the most exquisite automobile is a walking stick; and one of the finest things in life is going on a journey with it”
“Each of the arts whose office is to refine, purify, adorn, embellish and grace life is under the patronage of a muse, no god being found worthy to preside over them.”
“I may be president of the United States, but my private life is nobody's damned business.”
“Those who say that life is worth living at any cost have already written an epitaph of infamy, for there is no cause and no person that they will not betray to stay alive”
“Life is a series of natural and spontaneous changes. Don't resist them #NAME?forward in whatever way they like.”
“When we are motivated by goals that have deep meaning, by dreams that need completion, by pure love that needs expressing, then we truly live life”
“The fact is, we cannot truly face life until we have learned to face the fact that it will be taken away from us.”
“Some of the most important people in my life would be shocked to learn that they were role models. They weren't celebrities, or even particularly accomplished. But they had some quality that I admired, that made me want to be like them.”
“Life is a game in which the rules are constantly changing; nothing spoils a game more than those who take it seriously. Adultery? Phooey! You should never subjugate yourself to another nor seek the subjugation of someone else to yourself. If you follow that Crispian principle you will be able to say ''Phooey,'' too, instead of reaching for your gun when you fancy yourself betrayed.”
“People who talk about revolution and class struggle without referring explicitly to everyday life, without understanding what is subversive about love and what is positive in the refusal of constraints, such people have a corpse in their mouth.”
“The secret of life is enjoying the passage of time.”
“In art and dream may you proceed with abandon. In life may you proceed with balance and stealth.”
“Life is a great surprise. I don't see why death should not be an even greater one.”
“Before marriage, a man declares that he would lay down his life to serve you; after marriage, he won't even lay down his newspaper to talk to you”
“The most prominent place in hell is reserved for those who are neutral on the great issues of life”
“Between two worlds life hovers like a star, twixt night and morn, upon the horizon's verge.”
“People need to be made more aware of the need to work at learning how to live because life is so quick and sometimes it goes away too quickly”
“It is in the ordinary duties and labors of life that the Christian can and should develop his spiritual union with God.”
“Cats and monkeys, monkeys and cats - all human life is there”
“After sleeping through a hundred million centuries we have finally opened our eyes on a sumptuous planet, sparkling with color, bountiful with life. Within decades we must close our eyes again. Isn’t it a noble, an enlightened way of spending our brief time in the sun, to work at understanding the universe and how we have come to wake up in it? This is how I answer when I am asked—as I am surprisingly often—why I bother to get up in the mornings.”
“Man, being reasonable, must get drunk; the best of life is but intoxication.”
“It has bothered me all my life that I do not paint like everybody else.”
“To those persons who judge others for their lifestyle, behavior, or for just being different. Remember its a long hard fall to the ground from your pedestal.”
“If opportunity doesn't knock, build a door.”
“A smile will gain you ten more years of life”
“Time management is life managemnent”
“Life is a gamble. You can get hurt, but people die in plane crashes, lose their arms and legs in car accidents; people die every day. Same with fighters: some die, some get hurt, some go on. You just don't let yourself believe it will happen to you.”
“Just as energy is the basis of life itself, and ideas the source of innovation, so is innovation the vital spark of all human change, improvement and progress”
“Television is actually closer to reality than anything in books. The madness of TV is the madness of human life.”
“We cannot diminish the value of one category of human life -- the unborn -- without diminishing the value of all human life . . . there is no cause more important.”
“Seek the wisdom of the ages, but look at the world through the eyes of a child.”
“Maturity is the fine line between life and experience.”
“Most people have come to prefer certain of life’s experiences and deny and reject others, unaware of the value of the hidden things that may come wrapped in plain and even ugly paper. In avoiding all pain and seeking comfort at all costs, we may be left without intimacy or compassion; in rejecting change and risk we often cheat ourselves of the quest; in denying our suffering we may never know our strength or our greatness.”
“Life is just a bowl of pits.”
“Where is the Life we have lost in living? Where is the wisdom we have lost in knowledge? Where is the knowledge we have lost in information?”
“Curiosity is one of the lowest of the human faculties. You will have noticed in daily life that when people are inquisitive they nearly always have bad memories and are usually stupid at bottom.”
“You've been chasing me your entire life, only to fail now. I think that's the worst thing I've ever heard; how marvelous.”
“I never doubted my ability, but when you hear all your life you're inferior, it makes you wonder if the other guys have something you've never seen before. If they do, I'm still looking for it.”
“Everything in life is somewhere else, and you get there in a car.”
“Time = Life, Therefore, waste your time and waste of your life, or master your time and master your life.”
“We are doomed to cling to a life even while we find it unendurable.”
“Bereavement is the deepest initiation into the mysteries of human life, an initiation more searching and profound than even happy love.”
“Life is short, art long, opportunity fleeting, experience treacherous, judgment difficult”
“Life is an exciting business, and most exciting when it is lived for others.”
“I've been getting rid of some clutter — anything that doesn't serve a positive purpose in my life — and making room for things that feel happy to me. Because I get to make my life whatever I want it to be. I get to make the room feel however I want it to feel. I get to make the closet as full or as spacious as I want it. And, if I have more clutter to get rid of after Christmas, I'm not going to wait a year, or two or three to do it.”
“Life is made of ever so many partings welded together”
“The chief reason for going to school is to get the impression fixed for life that there is a book side for everything.”
“Life is a spell so exquisite that everything conspires to break it”
“Beauty comes from a life well lived. If you've lived well, your smile lines are in the right places, and your frown lines aren't too bad, what more do you need?”
“The art is long, life is short”
“I don't believe in an afterlife, so I don't have to spend my whole life fearing hell, or fearing heaven even more. For whatever the tortures of hell, I think the boredom of heaven would be even worse.”
“Get correct views of life, and learn to see the world in its true light. It will enable you to live pleasantly, to do good, and, when summoned away, to leave without regret.”
“Live by this credo: have a little laugh at life and look around you for happiness instead of sadness. Laughter has always brought me out of unhappy situations.”
“Many of life's failures are people who did not realize how close they were to success when they gave up.”
“School divides life into two segments, which are increasingly of comparable length. As much as anything else, schooling implies custodial care for persons who are declared undesirable elsewhere by the simple fact that a school has been built to serve them.”
“Bitterness imprisons life; love releases it”
“I have a full life, he has a full life of his own, and if we can merge, terrific.”
“Human life, its growth, its hopes, fears, loves, et cetera, are the result of accidents”
“. . . the circumference of life cannot be rightly drawn until the center is set.”
“The poorest way to face life is to face it with a sneer”
“When you examine the lives of the most influential people who have ever walked among us, you discover one thread that winds through them all. They have been aligned first with their spiritual nature and only then with their physical selves.”
“The highest manifestation of life consists in this: that a being governs its own actions. A thing which is always subject to the direction of another is somewhat of a dead thing.”
“My heart is a gypsy - continuously searching for a home, fighting within itself, wondering whether it is weak or even right for that matter to be searching in the first place. Lonliness is what it feels like...”
“The journey of life is like a man riding a bicycle. We know he got on the bicycle and started to move. We know that at some point he will stop and get off. We know that if he stops moving and does not get off he will fall off.”
“Although one may fail to find happiness in theatrical life, one never wishes to give it up after having once tasted its fruits.”
“True Christians are made to be slaves, and they know it and do not mind; this short life counts for too little in their eyes”
“We learn the rope of life by untying its knots.”
“A director makes only one movie in his life. Then he breaks it into pieces and makes it again.”
“Life is like a movie, if you've sat through more than half of it and its sucked every second so far, it probably isn't gonna get great right at the end and make it all worthwhile. None should blame you for walking out early.”
“The very essence of literature is the war between emotion and intellect, between life and death. When literature becomes too intellectual - when it begins to ignore the passions, the emotions - it becomes sterile, silly, and actually without substance.”
“Life is the continuous adjustment of internal relations to external relations”
“It takes a long time to grow young.”
“On life's journey faith is nourishment, virtuous deeds are a shelter, wisdom is the light by day and right mindfulness is the protection by night. If a man lives a pure life, nothing can destroy him.”
“To say yes, you have to sweat and roll up your sleeves and plunge both hands into life up to the elbows. It is easy to say no, even if saying no means death.”
“Satisfaction of one's curiosity is one of the greatest sources of happiness in life.”
“Life is a horizontal fall.”
“It is better to rise from life as from a banquet - neither thirsty nor drunken”
“One's family is the most important thing in life. I look at it this way: One of these days I'll be over in a hospital somewhere with four walls around me. And the only people who'll be with me will be my family.”
“Like hatred, jealousy is forbidden by the laws of life because it is essentially destructive”
“What signifies the life o' man, An' 'twere na for the lasses O”
“Being an intellectual creates a lot of questions and no answers. You can fill your life up with ideas and still go home lonely. All you really have that really matters are feelings. That's what music is to me.”
“Trying is the first step to failure”
“I have found it easier to identify with the characters who verge upon hysteria, who were frightened of life, who were desperate to reach out to another person. But these seemingly fragile people are the strong people really.”
“Love is energy of life.”
“Jupiter, not wanting man's life to be wholly gloomy and grim, has bestowed far more passion than reason /you could reckon the ration as twenty-four to one. Moreover, he confined reason to a cramped corner of the head and left all the rest of the body to the passions.”
“Don't be afraid of death so much as an inadequate life.”
“I like nonsense, it wakes up the brain cells. Fantasy is a necessary ingredient in living, It's a way of looking at life through the wrong end of a telescope. Which is what I do, And that enables you to laugh at life's realities.”
“If I had no sense of humor, I would long ago have committed suicide.”
“The strongest influences in my life and my work are always whomever I love. Whomever I love and am with most of the time, or whomever I remember most vividly. I think that's true of everyone, don't you?”
“The songs are inspired by my experiences. Sometimes they are more than my real-life and, conversely, my life is more than just my songs.”
“I think I got off on the wrong planet. Beam me up Scotty, there's no rational life here.”
“You don't get out of life what you want, you get what you expect.”
“We gotta come to some new ideas about life folks ok? I'm not being blase about abortion, it might be a real issue, it might not, doesn't matter to me. What matters is that if you believe in the sanctity of life then you believe it for life of all ages. That's what I hate about this child-worship syndrome going on. "Save the children! They're killing children! How many children were at Waco? They're killing children!" What does that mean? They reach a certain age and they're off your fucking love-list? Fuck your children, if that's the way you think then fuck you too. You either love all people of all ages or you shut the fuck up.”
“The joy of life is made up of obscure and seemingly mundane victories that gives us our own small satisfactions.”
“God makes the best roller coasters.”
“Life is a game in which the rules are constantly changing; nothing spoils a game more than those who take it seriously. Adultery? Phooey! You should never subjugate yourself to another nor seek the subjugation of someone else to yourself. If you follow that Crispian principle you will be able to say ''Phooey,'' too, instead of reaching for your gun when you fancy yourself betrayed.”
“If the dream is a translation of waking life, waking life is also a translation of the dream.”
“All deception in the course of life is indeed nothing else but a lie reduced to practice, and falsehood passing from words into things.”
“There is no life that does not contribute to history”
“I don't believe in happy endings, but I do believe in happy travels, because ultimately, you die at a very young age, or you live long enough to watch your friends die. It's a mean thing, life.”
“Music has brought me some of the highest moments of my life. I don't even hear the music. I don't even hear the notes. I'm not aware that someone has turned on a tape machine - I'm in another world.”
“Getting the most out of life is giving life your most.”
“Some people are just mentally constipated and could really use a brain enema.”
“When one man, for whatever reason, has the opportunity to lead an extraordinary life, he has no right to keep it to himself.”
“The fight between life and death is to the finish, and death ultimately is the victor . . . I do not deplore the passing of these crude old days.”
“Life was a lot simpler when what we honored was father and mother rather than all major credit cards.”
“Life is a lively process of becoming.”
“Judge a man by his questions rather than by his answers”
“In problem solving—risks are inherent both in terms of processes and outcomes.”
“All my life as an artist I have asked myself: What pushes me continually to make sculpture? I have found the answer. art is an action against death. It is a denial of death.”
“It does not matter how slowly you go as long as you do not stop.”
“How shall the soul of a man be larger than the life he has lived?”
“I am a friend of life, at 80 life tells me to behave like a woman and not like an old woman.”
“I have enough money to last me the rest of my life, unless I buy something.”
“Life is not a spectator sport. If you're going to spend your whole life in the grandstand just watching what goes on, in my opinion you're wasting your life.”
“Life is a tragedy for those who feel, but a comedy to those who think.”
“Don't confuse having a career with having a life”
“Once bitten by a snake, he/she is scared all his/her life at the mere sight of a rope.”
“The whole secret of life is to be interested in one thing profoundly and in a thousand things well.”
“The best things in life are nearest: Breath in your nostrils, light in your eyes, flowers at your feet, duties at your hand, the path of right just before you. Then do not grasp at the stars, but do life's plain, common work as it comes, certain that”
“Books are good enough in their own way, but they are a poor substitute for life”
“Family life is too intimate to be preserved by the spirit of justice. It can be sustained by a spirit of love which goes beyond justice.”
“Trouble is part of your life -- if you don't share it, you don't give the person who loves you a chance to love you enough.”
“Only actions give life strength; only moderation gives it charm.”
“The most life-destroying word of all is the word tomorrow”
“I enjoy being happy every day, and hopefully you can hear my happiness in my music. Life is beautiful.”
“Life is like riding a bicycle: you don't fall of unless you stop pedaling.”
“Life appears to me too short to be spent in nursing animosity, or registering wrongs.”
“Chaos often breeds life, when order breeds habit”
“Without the way , there is no going; without the truth, there is no knowing; without the life, there is no living.”
“I never thought of stopping, and I just hated sleeping. I can't imagine having a better life.”
“Your friend is the man who knows all about you, and still likes you.”
“God's great cosmic joke on the human race was requiring that men and women live together in marriage”
“I am convinced that it is not the fear of death, of our lives ending that haunts our sleep so much as the fear... that as far as the world is concerned, we might as well never have lived.”
“The most satisfying thing in life is to have been able to give a large part of one's self to others.”
“There is great beauty in going through life without anxiety or fear. Half our fears are baseless, and the other half discreditable.”
“Every single life only becomes great when the individual sets upon a goal or goals which they really believe in, which they can really commit themselves to, which they can put their whole heart and soul into.”
“If I hadn't of had music in my life, it's quite possible I'd be dead and I'd much rather be alive.”
“The wisdom of nations lies in their proverbs, which are brief and pithy. Collect and learn them; they are notable measures of directions for human life; you have much in little; they save time in speaking; and upon occasion may be the fullest and safest answer.”
“Laughing on the way to your execution is not generally understood by less-advanced life forms, and they call you crazy”
“The happiest moments of my life have been the few which I have passed at home in the bosom of my family”
“Men do not understand books until they have a certain amount of life, or at any rate no man understands a deep book, until he has seen and lived at least part of its contents.”
“Only actions give life its strength, as only moderation gives it its charm”
“Life has taught me that it is not for our faults that we are disliked and even hated, but for our qualities.”
“All we see of someone at any moment is a snapshot of their life, there in riches or poverty, in joy or despair. Snapshots don't show the million decisions that led to that moment.”
“Life is a long lesson in humility.”
“what you think you become”
“I prefer you to make mistakes in kindness than work miracles in unkindness.”
“Life is very short and what we have to do must be done in the now.”
“If I can stop one Heart from breaking I shall not live in vain If I can ease one life the Aching Or cool one Pain Or help one fainting Robin Unto his Nest again I shall not live in Vain”
“There is no such thing as perpetual tranquillity of mind while we live here; because life itself is but motion, and can never be without desire, nor without fear, no more than without sense.”
“Peace cannot be kept by force; it can only be achieved by understanding.”
“There is the greatest practical benefit in making a few failures early in life.”
“The cinema is not an art which films life: the cinema is something between art and life. Unlike painting and literature, the cinema both gives to life and takes from it, and I try to render this concept in my films. Literature and painting both exist as art from the very start; the cinema doesn't.”
“No, there's nothing half so sweet in life As love's young dream”
“Because the soul has such deep roots in personal and social life and its values run so contrary to modern concerns, caring for the soul may well turn out to be a radical act, a challenge to accepted norms.”
“Life is really simple, but we insist on making it complicated.”
“The most interesting information comes from children, for they tell all they know and then stop”
“Noble life demands a noble architecture for noble uses of noble men. Lack of culture means what it has always meant: ignoble civilization and therefore imminent downfall.”
“The fear of death follows from the fear of life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.”
“Dream as if you'll live forever. Live as if you'll die today.”
“Of course people don’t want war. Why should a poor slob on a farm want to risk his life in a war when the best thing he can get out of it is to come back to his farm in one piece?”
“If you can spend a perfectly useless afternoon in a perfectly useless manner, you have learned how to live.”
“Only actions give life strength; only moderation gives it charm.”
“You think intercourse is a private act; it's not, it's a social act. Men are sexually predatory in life; and women are sexually manipulative. When two individuals come together and leave their gender outside the bedroom door, then they make love.”
“Kill all the fags that don't agree”
“Self-discipline is crucial to a simpler, more contented life.”
“I'm scared of walking out of this room and never feeling the rest of my whole life, the way I feel when I'm with you.”
“How strange is the lot of us mortals! Each of us is here for a brief sojourn; for what purpose he knows not, though he senses it. But without deeper reflection one knows from daily life that one exists for other people.”
“Life is a pilgrimage. The wise man does not rest by the roadside inns. He marches direct to the illimitable domain of eternal bliss, his ultimate destination.”
“Sooner or later we all discover that the important moments in life are not the advertised ones, not the birthdays, the graduations, the weddings, not the great goals achieved. The real milestones are less prepossessing. They come to the door of memory unannounced, stray dogs that amble in, sniff around a bit and simply never leave. Our lives are measured by these”
“The fear of death follows from the fear of life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.”
“Faith is not simply a patience that passively suffers until the storm is past. Rather, it is a spirit that bears things - with resignations, yes, but above all, with blazing, serene hope.”
“We are told to let our light shine, and if it does, we won't need to tell anybody it does. Lighthouses don't fire cannons to call attention to their shining- they just shine.”
“The whole conviction of my life now rests upon the belief that loneliness, far from being a rare and curious phenomenon, peculiar to myself and to a few other solitary men, is the central and inevitable fact of human existence”
“Those who dwell among the beauties and mysteries of the earth are never alone or weary of life.”
“We generate our own environment. We get exactly what we deserve. How can we resent a life we've created ourselves? Who's to blame, who's to credit but us? Who can change it, anytime we wish, but us?”
“Those who don’t love themselves as they are rarely love life either.”
“There are two ways to slide easily through life: to believe everything or to doubt everything. Both ways save us from thinking.”
“I'll try anything once, twice if I like it, three times to make sure.”
“Beat your wife on the wedding day, and your married life will be happy”
“The way you think, the way you behave, the way you eat, can influence your life by 30 to 50 years.”
“Beyond every millisecond of existence is an infinite miracle of chance”
“It is easy to love the people far away. It is not always easy to love those close to us. It is easier to give a cup of rice to relieve hunger than to relieve the loneliness and pain of someone unloved in our own home. Bring love into your home for this is where our love for each other must start.”
“I´m no Sexgoddess but I haven't spent my life in a tree ...”
“She's afraid that if she leaves, she'll become the life of the party”
“Many people worry so much about managing their careers, but rarely spend half that much energy managing their LIVES. I want to make my life, not just my job, the best it can be. The rest will work itself out.”
“It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood, who strives valiantly; who errs and comes short again and again; because there is not effort without error and shortcomings; but who does actually strive to do the deed; who knows the great enthusiasm, the great devotion, who spends himself in a worthy cause, who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement and who at the worst, if he fails, at least he fails while daring greatly. So that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who know neither victory nor defeat.”
“May you live a long life full of gladness and health.”
“Some cause happiness wherever they go; others whenever they go”
“No one can make you feel inferior without your consent.”
“The poem is a little myth of man's capacity of making life meaningful. And in the end, the poem is not a thing we see-it is, rather, a light by which we may see-and what we see is life.”
“All life demands struggle. Those who have everything given to them become lazy, selfish, and insensitive to the real values of life. The very striving and hard work that we so constantly try to avoid is the major building block in the person we are today.”
“Life is a progress, and not a station.”
“People are less self-conscious in the intimacy of family life and during the anxiety of a great sorrow. The dazzling varnish of an extreme politeness is then less in evidence, and the true qualities of the heart regain their proper proportions.”
“Keep your love tightly and do not think too hard about your relationship, because doubt will separate you from your love. Enjoy every moment together.”
“As we explore the beauty within us, we discover the beauty around us.”
“While the laughter of joy is in full harmony with our deeper life, the laughter of amusement should be kept apart from it. The danger is too great of thus learning to look at solemn things in a spirit of mockery, and to seek in them opportunities for exercising wit.”
“Expecting and Accepting are the two sides of life, Expecting can end in tears, but Accepting will bring you cheers!”
“There are three things in life that people like to stare at: a flowing stream, a crackling fire and a Zamboni clearing the ice.”
“Before you speak, listen.
Before you write, think.
Before you spend, earn.
Before you invest, investigate.
Before you criticize, wait.
Before you pray, forgive.
Before you quit, try.
Before you retire, save.
Before you die, give.”
“I would be married, but I'd have no wife, I would be married to a single life.”
“Happiness, that grand mistress of the ceremonies in the dance of life, impels us through all its mazes and meanderings, but leads none of us by the same route.”
“The world is forbidden to those of the life to come; the life to come is forbidden to those of this world”
“In mid-life the man wants to see how irresistible he still is to younger women. How they turn their hearts to stone and more or less commit a murder of their marriage I just don't know, but they do.”
“The man who is aware of himself is henceforward independent; and he is never bored, and life is only too short, and he is steeped through and through with a profound yet temperate happiness.”
“The greatest discovery of my generation is that a human being can change his life by changing his attitude of mind”
“Never throughout history has a man who lived a life of ease left a name worth remembering”
“Life, to me, is like a quiet forest pool, one that needs a direct hit from a big rock half-buried in the ground. You pull and you pull, but you can't get the rock out of the ground. So you give it a good kick, but you lose your balance and go skidding down the hill toward the pool. Then out comes a big Hawaiian man who was screwing his wife beside the pool because they thought it was real pretty. He tells you to get out of there, but you start faking it, like you're talking Hawaiian, and then he gets mad and chases you...”
“When you fish for love, bait with your heart, not your brain”
“Education doesn't change life much. It just lifts trouble to a higher plane of regard.”
“Life ought to be a struggle of desire toward adventures whose nobility will fertilize the soul.”
“Life is so constructed, that the event does not, cannot, will not, match the expectation”
“Brief is life but love is long.”
“We all experience many freakish and unexpected events - you have to be open to suffering a little. The philosopher Schopenhauer talked about how out of the randomness, there is an apparent intention in the fate of an individual that can be glimpsed later on. When you are an old guy, you can look back, and maybe this rambling life has some through-line. Others can see it better sometimes. But when you glimpse it yourself, you see it more clearly than anyone”
“Those who write about life, reflect about life. you see in others who you are.”
“If you have enough time to waste, try giving it to someone who have moments to live.”
“Home is not where you live, but where they understand you”
“I do not want to be the leader. I refuse to be the leader. I want to live darkly and richly in my femaleness. I want a man lying over me, always over me. His will, his pleasure, his desire, his life, his work, his sexuality the touchstone, the command, my pivot. I don’t mind working, holding my ground intellectually, artistically; but as a woman, oh, God, as a woman I want to be dominated. I don’t mind being told to stand on my own feet, not to cling, be all that I am capable of doing, but I am going to be pursued, fucked, possessed by the will of a male at his time, his bidding.”
“Acceptance of one's life has nothing to do with resignation; it does not mean running away from the struggle. On the contrary, it means accepting it as it comes, with all the handicaps of heredity, of suffering, of psychological complexes and injustices.”
“A long and wicked life followed by five minutes of perfect grace gets you into Heaven. An equally long life of decent living and good works followed by one outburst of taking the name of the Lord in vain - then have a heart attack at that moment and be damned for eternity. Is that the system?”
“Wherever art appears, life disappears.”
“I have noticed that when things happen in one's imaginings, they never happen in one's life.”
“Tear my heart out, slow roast me over a fire, pull off my eyebrows strand by strand, push pins though my fingernails….do anything to me, anything but a monday.”
“The Giver of life gave it for happiness and not for wretchedness.”
“A fish may love a bird, but where would they live?”
“The man of life upright has a guiltless heart, free from all dishonest deeds or thought of vanity.”
“Romantic love, in pornography as in life, is the mythic celebration of female negation. For a woman, love is defined as her willingness to submit to her own annihilation. The proof of love is that she is willing to be destroyed by the one whom she loves, for his sake. For the woman, love is always self-sacrifice, the sacrifice of identity, will, and bodily integrity, in order to fulfill and redeem the masculinity of her lover.”
“He who sows courtesy reaps friendship, and he who plants kindness gathers love”
“As you walk down the fairway of life you must smell the roses, for you only get to play one round.”
“I have spent all my life under a Communist regime, and I will tell you that a society without any objective legal scale is a terrible one indeed. But a society with no other scale but the legal one is not quite worthy of man either.”
“People who claim that sentencing a murderer to "life without the possibility of parole" protects society just as well as the death penalty ignore three things: (1) life without the possibility of parole does not mean life without the possibility of escape or (2) life without the possibility of killing while in prison or (3) life without the possibility of a liberal governor being elected and issuing a pardon.”
“Love seems the swiftest, but it is the slowest of all growths. No man or woman really knows what perfect love is until they have been married a quarter of a century.”
“If the children are untaught, their ignorance and vices will in future life cost us much dearer in their consequences than it would have done in their correction by a good education”
“The good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep”
“And Jesus said unto them, I am the bread of life: he that cometh to me shall never hunger; and he that believeth on me shall never thirst (John 6:35).”
“The rare few, who, early in life have rid themselves of the friendship of the many”
“He slept beneath the moon, he basked beneath the sun; he lived a life of going to do and died with nothing done”
“I used to be funny, and perhaps I'm not anymore. It may be that I have become rather grumpy because I've seen so many things that have offended me that I cannot deal with in terms of laughter.”
“Freedom and order are not incompatible... truth is strength... free discussion is the very life of truth.”
“Our emotional symptoms are precious sources of life and individuality.”
“After sleeping through a hundred million centuries we have finally opened our eyes on a sumptuous planet, sparkling with color, bountiful with life. Within decades we must close our eyes again. Isn’t it a noble, an enlightened way of spending our brief time in the sun, to work at understanding the universe and how we have come to wake up in it? This is how I answer when I am asked—as I am surprisingly often—why I bother to get up in the mornings.”
“My specialty is being right when other people are wrong”
“You are led through your lifetime by the inner learning creature, the playful spiritual being that is your real self. Don't turn away from possible futures before you're certain you don't have anything to learn from them.”
“Original Experience has not been interpreted for you, and so you’ve got to work out life for yourself. Either you can take it or you can’t. You don’t have to go far off the interpreted path to find yourself in very difficult situations. The courage to face the trials and to bring a whole new body of possibilities into the field of interpreted experience for other people to experience – that is the hero’s deed.”
“You must have control of the authorship of your own destiny. The pen that writes your life story must be held in your own hand.”
“I volunteered for this life, wanted it and am not going to bitch about it now that I've got it.”
“The best thing for being sad,” replied Merlyn, beginning to puff and blow, “is to learn something. That is the only thing that never fails. You may grow old and trembling in your anatomies, you may lie awake at night listening to the disorder of your veins, you may miss your only love, you may see the world about you devastated by evil lunatics, or know your honour trampled in the sewers of baser minds. There is only one thing for it then — to learn. Learn why the world wags and what wags it. That is the only thing which the mind can never exhaust, never alienate, never be tortured by, never fear or distrust, and never dream of regretting."”
“Next to God, we are indebted to women, first for life itself, and then for making it worth having”
“We are each our own devil, and we make this world our hell”
“An aim in life is the only fortune worth finding.”
“There is only one difference between a long life and a good dinner: that, in the dinner, the sweets come last.”
“We have one life; it soon will be past; what we do for God is all that will last.”
“All interest in disease and death is only another expression of interest in life.”
“You are never too old to set another goal or to dream a new dream.”
“How vain it is to sit down to write when you have not stood up to live.”
“Don't ever make the same mistake twice, unless it pays.”
“Acting should be bigger than life. Scripts should be bigger than life. It should all be bigger than life.”
“There is neither happiness nor misery in the world; there is only the comparison of one state to another, nothing more. He who has felt the deepest grief is best able to experience supreme happiness. We must have felt what it is to die, that we may appreciate the enjoyments of life.”
“Tell me and I'll forget; show me and I may remember; involve me and I'll understand.”
“He dieth not who giveth life to learning”
“Nothing in the world is more flexible and yielding than water. Yet when it attacks the firm and the strong, none can withstand it, because they have no way to change it. So the flexible overcome the adamant, the yielding overcome the forceful. Everyone knows this, but no one can do it.”
“Be the change you want to see in the world.”
“Personally, I would be delighted if there were a life after death, especially if it permitted me to continue to learn about this world and others, if it gave me a chance to discover how history turns out.”
“No arts; no letters; no society; and which is worst of all, continual fear and danger of violent death; and the life of man, solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short”
“Compassion, forgiveness, these are the real, ultimate sources of power for peace and success in life.”
“A high station in life is earned by the gallantry with which appalling experiences are survived with grace.”
“Most part of a lover's life is full of agony, anxiety, fear and grief, complaints, sighs, suspicions, and cares (heigh-ho my heart is woe), full of silence and irksome solitariness”
“An Israeli man's life was saved when he was given a Palestinian man's heart in a heart transplant operation. The guy is doing fine, but the bad news is, he can't stop throwing rocks at himself.”
“In almost everything that touches our everyday life on earth, God is pleased when we're pleased. He wills that we be as free as birds to soar and sing our maker's praise without anxiety.”
“Bush reiterated his stand to conservatives opposing his decision on stem cell research. He said today he believes life begins at conception and ends at execution.”
“There are three ingredients to the good life; learning, earning, and yearning.”
“A life is not important except in the impact it has on other lives.”
“Try to remember that work cannot be the only thing in life.”
“Music is moonlight in the gloomy night of life.”
“Do not fear death so much but rather the inadequate life”
“You had no right to be born; for you make no use of life. Instead of living for, in, and with yourself, as a reasonable being ought, you seek only to fasten your feebleness on some other person's strength.”
“All of the top achievers I know are life-long learners... Looking for new skills, insights, and ideas. If they're not learning, they're not growing... not moving toward excellence.”
“Life leaps like a geyser for those who drill through the rock of inertia”
“Only actions give life its strength, as only moderation gives it its charm”
“Goals are a means to an end, not the ultimate purpose of our lives. They are simply a tool to concentrate our focus and move us in a direction. The only reason we really pursue goals is to cause ourselves to expand and grow. Achieving goals by themselves will never make us happy in the long term; it's who you become, as you overcome the obstacles necessary to achieve your goals, that can give you the deepest and most long-lasting sense of fulfillment.”
“Every man has the right to risk his own life in order to preserve it. Has it ever been said that a man who throws himself out the window to escape from a fire is guilty of suicide?”
“Mere longevity is a good thing for those who watch Life from the side lines. For those who play the game, an hour may be a year, a single day's work an achievement for eternity.”
“It's really weird how your life changes. Tonight I'm drinking water. Four years ago? Opium. Night and day, you know?”
“Every life has dark tracts and long stretches of somber tint, and no representation is true to fact which dips its pencil only in light, and flings no shadows on the canvas.”
“It is impossible to win the great prizes of life without running risks, and the greatest of all prizes are those connected with the home”
“Life can be dramatic and funny all in the same day!”
“Where life is more terrible than death, it is then the truest valor to dare to live.”
“I am not an animal in my personal life. But in the ring there is an animal inside me. Sometimes it roars when the first bell rings. Sometimes it springs out later in a fight. But I can always feel it there, driving me and pushing me forward. It is what makes me win. It makes me enjoy fighting.”
“We are the miracle of force and matter making itself over into imagination and will. Incredible. The Life Force experimenting with forms. You for one. Me for another. The Universe has shouted itself alive. We are one of the shouts.”
“Life is funny. Life isn't categorized into comedy, drama, action, is it?So I don't know why they try to categorize everything. It drives me crazy-why it would have to be just a romantic comedy or...I want to have a little integrity, a little story, you know.”
“Consider any individual at any period of his life, and you will always find him preoccupied with fresh plans to increase his comfort.”
“People don't live nowadays: they get about ten percent out of life.”
“Often my creative life has seemed like a long tunnel, dark and damp. And sometimes I wondered whether I could live through it. But I did!”
“There is nothing lost or wasted in this life.”
“.............Sometimes Nothing is Everything..............”
“This life is but a tillage for the next, do good that you may reap there; for striving is the ordinance of God and whatever God hath ordained can only be attained by striving”
“He who is not courageous enough to take risks will accomplish nothing in life.”
“Life is 10% of what happens to me and 90% of how I react to it.”
“I've been getting rid of some clutter — anything that doesn't serve a positive purpose in my life — and making room for things that feel happy to me. Because I get to make my life whatever I want it to be. I get to make the room feel however I want it to feel. I get to make the closet as full or as spacious as I want it. And, if I have more clutter to get rid of after Christmas, I'm not going to wait a year, or two or three to do it.”
“The effort to understand the universe is one of the very few things that lifts human life a little above the level of farce, and gives it some of the grace of tragedy.”
“Progress is impossible without change, and those who cannot change their minds cannot change anything.”
“The successful people of this world take life as it comes. They just go out and deal with the world as it is.”
“We forge the chains we wear in life”
“In New Orleans, gluttony is a way of life.”
“Whoever destroys a single life is as guilty as though he had destroyed the entire world; and whoever rescues a single life earns as much merit as though he had rescued the entire world”
“When you choose to love as God loves, it will never be safe....but it will set you free.”
“When you're in love it's the most glorious two and a half days of your life”
“Private and public life are subject to the same rules-- truth and manliness are two qualities that will carry you through this world much better then policy or tact or expediency or other words that were devised to conceal a deviation from a straight line.”
“Life is so short we must move very slowly.”
“I'm at the age where food has taken the place of sex in my life. In fact, I've just had a mirror put over my kitchen table.”
“Life does not proceed by the association and addition of elements, but by dissociation and division.”
“Without mysteries, life would be very dull indeed. What would be left to strive for if everything were known?”
“You know, by the time you reach my age, you've made plenty of mistakes if you've lived your life properly.”
“If a man earnestly seeks a righteous life, his first act of abstinence is from animal food.”
“The figure a poem makes. It begins in delight and ends in wisdom...in a clarification of life--not necessarily a great clarification, such as sects and cults are founded on, but in a momentary stay against confusion.”
“You know you are getting old when the candles cost more than the cake.”
“Whatever I have tried to do in life, I have tried with all my heart to do it well; whatever I have devoted myself to, I have devoted myself completely; in great aims and in small I have always thoroughly been in earnest.”
“Taking joy in life is a woman's best cosmetic”
“Uncertainty and expectation are the joys of life. Security is an insipid thing, through the overtaking and possessing of a wish discovers the folly of the chase.”
“Make somebody happy today. Mind your own business.”
“Life is like a sewer... what you get out of it depends on what you put into it.”
“Faith is the sense of life, that sense by virtue of which man does not destroy himself, but continues to live on. It is the force whereby we live.”
“I have spent most of my life unlearning things that were proved not to be true”
“I cannot follow you Christians; for you try to crawl through your life upon your knees, while I stride through mine on my feet”
“In life we shall find many men that are great, and some that are good, but very few men that are both great and good.”
“Any man who can write a page of living prose adds something to our life, and the man who can, as I can, is surely the last to resent someone who can do it even better. An artist cannot deny art, nor would he want to. A lover cannot deny love.”
“Our body is a machine for living. It is organized for that, it is its nature. Let life go on in it unhindered and let it defend itself, it will do more than if you paralyze it by encumbering it with remedies.”
“Why must children die? I have reached the conclusion that the only purpose in the life of every man is to strengthen love within himself, and by strengthening it within himself, to infect other people with it”
“One great question underlies our experience, whether we think about it or not: what is the purpose of life? From the moment of birth every human being wants happiness and does not want suffering. Neither social conditioning nor education nor ideology affects this. From the very core of our being, we simply desire contentment. Therefore, it is important to discover what will bring about the greatest degree of happiness”
“Life is just one crushing defeat after another until you just wish Flanders was dead.”
“I am to be broken. I am to be derided all my life. I am to be cast up and down among these men and women, with their twitching faces, with their lying tongues, like a cork on a rough sea. Like a ribbon of weed I am flung far every time the door opens.”
“Moral perfection is beyond reach but this is the law of human life”
“If life is just a stage, then we are all running around ad-libbing, with absolutely no clue what the plot is. Maybe that's why we don't know whether it's a comedy or tragedy.”
“Each human life is unique, born of a miracle that reaches beyond laboratory science. Any discovery that touches upon human creation is not simply a matter of scientific inquiry. It is a matter of morality and spirituality as well.”
“He who risks and fails can be forgiven. He who never risks and never fails is a failure in his whole being.”
“Remember that everyone you meet is afraid of something, loves something, and has lost something”
“Myths are clues to the spiritual potentialities of the human life”
“By three methods we may learn wisdom: first, by reflection, which is noblest; second, by imitation, which is easiest; and third, by experience, which is the most bitter.”
“Seldom in the business and transactions of ordinary life, do we find the sympathy we want.”
“God allows us to experience the low points of life in order to teach us lessons we could not learn in any other way. The way we learn those lessons is not to deny the feelings but to find the meanings underlying them.”
“A nation which has forgotten the quality of courage which in the past has been brought to public life is not as likely to insist upon or regard that quality in its chosen leaders today - and in fact we have forgotten.”
“The only thing that makes life possible is a permanent, intolerable uncertainty: not knowing what comes next”
“I am sorry to say that there is too much point to the wisecrack that life is extinct on other planets because their scientists were more advanced than ours.”
“Life is a difficult game. You can win it only by retaining your birthright to be a person.”
“The greatest happiness of life is the conviction that we are loved -- loved for ourselves, or rather, loved in spite of ourselves.”
“In order to write about life, first you must live it!”
“Man's main task in life is to give birth to himself”
“Naught is possessed, neither gold, nor land nor love, nor life, nor peace, nor even sorrow nor death, nor yet salvation. Say of nothing: It is mine. Say only: It is with me.”
“We act as though comfort and luxury were the chief requirements of life, when all that we need to make us really happy is something to be enthusiastic about”
“And above all, watch with glittering eyes the whole world around you because the greatest secrets are always hidden in the most unlikely places. Those who don't believe in magic will never find it.”
“At times is it seems that I am living my life backward, and that at the approach of old age my real youth will begin. My soul was born covered with wrinkles-wrinkles that my ancestors and parents most assiduously put there and that I had the greatest trouble removing.”
“You use your money to buy privacy because during most of your life you aren't allowed to be normal.”
“'Tis the set of the sail that decides the goal, and not the storm of life”
“Life cannot defeat a writer who is in love with writing; for life itself is a writer's love until death.”
“Doesn't matter what other people do. The only competition you should beat is yourself. So strive to be better each day.”
“Without the darkness the light would be lonely, without hate, true love could never be tangible, without death we'd lead a life full of repetitive misery, and without family we'd fail to exist.”
“This huge life-changing moment of going from zero to ninety in two seconds!”
“Don't underestimate the value of Doing Nothing, of just going along, listening to all the things you can't hear, and not bothering.”
“When a thing is funny, search it for a hidden truth.”
“You use a glass mirror to see your face; you use works of art to see your soul”
“Speak when you are angry - and you'll make the best speech you'll ever regret.”
“The fundamental desire of life is the desire to exist.”
“If you cry because the sun has gone out of your life, your tears will prevent you from seeing the stars”
“Brotherhood is not just a Bible word. Out of comradeship can come and will come the happy life for all.”
““The great epochs of our life come when we gain the courage to rechristen our evil as what is best in us.””
“Life would be a perpetual flea hunt if a man were obliged to run down all the innuendoes, inveracities, and insinuations and misrepresentations which are uttered against him.”
“Nobody can go back and start a new beginning, but anyone can start today and make a new ending.”
“Work is futile if we cannot utilise the experience we collect in one life in the next.”
“It is not the years in a life that matters, but rather the life in the years.”
“I wanted to live deep and suck out all the marrow of life, to live so sturdily and Spartan-like as to put to rout all that was not life, to cut a broad swath and shave close, to drive life into a corner, and reduce it to its lowest terms, and, if it”
“When you are dispirited, held back, beat down and you have no one,you can give up, give in, or you can find those things you need to stand within yourself.If no one else believes in you, then you must believe in yourself.If you can not get the love you need from others, you must make room in your heart and give that love to yourself.You must accept yourself exactly as you are, all your flaws, all your faults, all your dreams.”
“I don't know what I did in this life to deserve all of this. I'm just a girl from a trailer park who had a dream.”
“I owe all my success in life to having always been a quarter of an hour beforehand”
“Life would be tolerable but for its amusements.”
“Only those who know the supremacy of the intellectual life can understand the grief of one who falls from that serene activity into the absorbing soul-wasting struggle with worldly annoyances.”
“But the mother's yearning, that completest type of the life in another life which is the essence of real human love, feels the presence of the cherished child even in the debased, degraded man.”
“The darkest hour in any man's' life is when he sits down to plan how to get money without earning it”
“The men whom I have seen succeed best in life always have been cheerful and hopeful men; who went about their business with a smile on their faces; and took the changes and chances of this mortal life like men; facing rough and smooth alike as it came.”
“I don't think anyone has the right to intrude in your life, but they do. I would like people to separate the actress and the woman.”
“Do not be too moral. You may cheat yourself out of much life so. Aim above morality. Be not simply good; be good for something.”
“A person's a person, no matter how small.”
“I'm living my life the way I want it...living it with NO regrets. I'm not sorry for anything I've done, doing, or going to do; said, saying or going to say. Thats who I am and who I'm always going to be.”
“Those painful memories are what can help us make it to tomorrow, and become stronger. That goes for everyone. Every single human being has that power within them. Walk tall. And I, too, will forever walk tall, ever onwards. Never forget the memories we share”
“When you "settle" for something it means you get "less" than what you deserve.”
“No witchcraft, no enemy action had silenced the rebirth of new life in this stricken world. The people had done it themselves.”
“When we are blinded by anger and resentment, we have to come to the realization that the choice to look within yourself and realize that the only way we are going to change the situation is if we change ourselves. Only then will we see things in a different light and begin to make a real difference in our lives, relationships, and our circumstances.”
“When you get the personality, you don't need the nudity.”
“What avails love when life is so ephemeral?
What avaiIs a mortal’s love for the immortal?
Love that is snuffed out by death’s passing blast
Love without the pain, the passion that consumes?
A flickering spark I am, aglow for a fleeting glance
Flow vain for a flickering spark to chase an eternal flame!
Grant me the bliss of eternal life, O Lord,
And mine will be the ecstasy of eternal love.
Give me the pleasure of an everlasting pain
An agony that lacerates my soul for ever.”
“The remarkable thing is that it is the crowded life that is most easily remembered. A life full of turns, achievements, disappointments, surprises, and crises is a life full of landmarks. The empty life has even its few details blurred, and cannot be remembered with certainty.”
“The single biggest problem in communication is the illusion that it has taken place.”
“Life levels all men. Death reveals the eminent.”
“There are two things in this life for which we are never fully prepared and that is twins”
“My biggest regret in life is that I didn't hit John Denver in the mouth while I has the chance.”
“When it comes to my life I have always been an optimist. My door is always open, and My pants are always down.”
“Without general elections, without unrestricted freedom of press and assembly, without a free struggle of opinion, life dies out in every public institution, becomes a mere semblance of life, in which only the bureaucracy remains as the active element. Public life gradually falls asleep, a few dozen party leaders of inexhaustible energy and boundless experience direct and rule. Such conditions must inevitably cause a brutalization of public life: attempted assassinations, shootings of hostages, etc.”
“My life has always been a series of challenges and I'm psychologically-prepared but this is the biggest challenge of my life.”
“There are forces in life working for you and against you. One must distinguish the beneficial forces from the malevolent ones and choose correctly between them.”
“Roaming through the jungle of "oohs" and "ahs," searching for a more agreeable noise, I live a life of primitivity with the mind of a child and an unquenchable thirst for sharps and flats.”
“As an adolescent I was convinced that France would have to go through gigantic trials, that the interest of life consisted in one day rendering her some signal service and that I would have the occasion to do so.”
“I believe that being successful means having a balance of success stories across the many areas of your life. You can't truly be considered successful in your business life if your home life is in shambles.”
“I have learned throughout my life as a composer chiefly through my mistakes and pursuits of false assumptions, not by my exposure to founts of wisdom and knowledge.”
“My experience through life has convinced me that, while moderation and temperance in all things are commendable and beneficial, abstinence from spirituous liquors is the best safeguard of morals and health.”
“Write bad things that are done to you in sand, but write the good things that happen to you on a piece of marble”
“I was not sure I wanted to issue orders to life; I rather liked the Greek notion of allowing Chance to take a formative hand in my affairs”
“Every man is thoroughly happy twice in his life: just after he has met his first love, and just after he has left his last one”
“We tend to forget that happiness doesn't come as a result of getting something we don't have, but rather of recognizing and appreciating what we do have.”
“The distinction between past, present, and future is only a stubbornly persistent illusion”
“The work of art, just like any fragment of human life considered in its deepest meaning, seems to me devoid of value if it does not offer the hardness, the rigidity, the regularity, the luster on every interior and exterior facet, of the crystal.”
“You better believe there will be times in your life when you'll be feeling like a stumbling fool. So take it from me: you'll learn more from your accident than anything that you could ever learn in school.”
“The most important thing I can do for my children is to protect them and to teach them. After that, it's up to them to be and do their best in life.”
“Belonging to oneself--the whole essence of life lies in that.”
“To fear love is to fear life, and those who fear life are already three parts dead.”
“Everything was beautiful, and nothing hurt”
“The world of a comic strip ought to be a special place with its own logic and life... I don't want the issue of Hobbes's reality settled by a doll manufacturer.”
“Nothing fixes a thing so intensely in the memory as the wish to forget it.”
“Life with Mary was like being in a telephone booth with an open umbrella-no matter which way you turned, you got it in the eye.”
“I believe that a worthwhile life is defined by a kind of spiritual journey and a sense of obligation.”
“I look back on my life like a good day's work; it was done and I am satisfied with it”
“Our lives are a sum total of the choices we have made.”
“Dear God, let me be something every minute of every hour of my life. Let me be gay; let me be sad. Let me be cold; let me be warm. Let me be hungry...have too much to eat. Let me be ragged or well dressed. Let me be sincere -- be decietful. Let me be truthful; let me be a liar. Let me be honorable and let me sin. Only let me be something every blessed minute. And when I sleep, let me dream all the time so that not one little piece of living is ever lost.”
“In my life, I don't need to have my face plastered everywhere. It's not really something I want.”
“You'll be the same year after year except for the people you meet, the books you read, the films you watch, the places you travel, and the new things you do.”
“He who learns but does not think, is lost! He who thinks but does not learn is in great danger.”
“You don't realize this when you're giving birth but you instantly know it when you assess your life,”
“Who among us does not have flaws?
Who does not bear scars?
Each of our journeys unique.
Our adversities leave upon us lasting marks.
They show us all that we have overcome.
Life; a constant struggle,
and by choosing not to give in, we rise above.”
“The painting has a life of its own. I try to let it come through.”
“i live of passion - driven with devotion, focus with foundation, giving with goodness, living with love.”
“Life is precious to the old person. He is not interested merely in thoughts of yesterday's good life and tomorrow's path to the grave. He does not want his later years to be a sentence of solitary confinement in society. Nor does he want them to be a death watch.”
“The fear of death follows from the fear of life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.”
“We must be willing to get rid of the life we've planned, so as to have the life that is waiting for us. The old skin has to be shed before the new one can come.”
“So it goes.”
“Never go to a doctor whose office plants have died.”
“When one door is closed, don't you know, another is open.”
“In life there is nothing more unexpected and surprising than the arrivals and departures of pleasure. If we find it in one place to-day, it is vain to seek it there to-morrow. You can not lay a trap for it.”
“I knew that I had come face to face with some one whose mere personality was so fascinating that, if I allowed it to do so, it would absorb my whole nature, my whole soul, my very art itself.”
“The marvels of daily life are exciting; no movie director can arrange the unexpected that you find in the street.”
“The hunger for love is much more difficult to remove than the hunger for bread.”
“If we have no peace, it is because we have forgotten that we belong to each other.”
“Be the best, do the best, expect the best. But be prepared to face the worse”
“When important issues affecting the life of an individual are decided by somebody else, it makes no difference to the individual whether that somebody else is a king, a dictator, or society at large”
“But who prays for Satan? Who, in eighteen centuries, has had the common humanity to pray for the one sinner that needed it most?”
“The value of a man should be seen in what he gives and not in what he is able to receive.”
“I had a very bad year in my life. My mother died in February. I was 16 in April and graduated from high school that June. My father died in August and the mortgage was foreclosed in October. I can remember thinking, This is tough, but this is good for me. It's always stuck with me. I knew somehow that I was going through a period that was strengthening.”
“It is not length of life, but depth of life.”
“If we were all sposed to be perfect, then we would all be the exactly same.”
“Oh man, it's made my life easier....Imagine if a Duke Ellington or a Stravinsky had had a system like that.”
“Whenever the pressure of our complex city life thins my blood and numbs my brain, I seek relief in the trail; and when I hear the coyote wailing to the yellow dawn, my cares fall from me - I am happy.”
“One must die to life in order to be utterly a creator”
“One's age should be tranquil, as childhood should be playful. Hard work at either extremity of life seems out of place. At midday the sun may burn, and men labor under it; but the morning and evening should be alike calm and cheerful.”
“There comes a time in a man's life when to get where he has to go - if there are no doors or windows he walks through a wall.”
“The product, abortion, is skillfully marketed and sold to the woman at the crisis time in her life. She buys the product, finds it defective and wants to return it for a refund. But, it's too late.”
“Oh little Cody Pomeray if there had been some way to send a cry to you even when you were too little to know what utterances and cries are for in this dark sad earth, with your terrors in a world so malign and inhospitable, and all the insults from heaven ramming down to crowd your head with anger, pain, disgrace, worst of all the crapulous poverty in and out of every splintered door of days, if someone could have said to you then, and made you perceive, "Fear life, but don't die; you're alone, everybody's alone. Oh Cody Pomeray, you can't win, you can't lose, all is ephemeral, all is hurt."”
“We do not know what to do with this short life, yet we want another which will be eternal.”
“The idea that seeing life means going from place to place and doing a great variety of obvious things is an illusion natural to dull minds.”
“Treat those who are good with goodness, and also treat those who are not good with goodness. Thus goodness is attained. Be honest to those who are honest, and be also honest to those who are not honest. Thus honesty is attained...”
“Be a life long or short, its completeness depends on what it was lived for”
“Few tragedies can be more extensive than the stunting of life, few injustices deeper than the denial of an opportunity to strive or even to hope, by a limit imposed from without, but falsely identified as lying within.”
“The question is where do we go from here? The answer is -- life.”
“From the backstabbing co-worker to the meddling sister-in-law, you are in charge of how you react to the people and events in your life. You can either give negativity power over your life or you can choose happiness instead. Take control and choose to focus on what is important in your life. Those who cannot live fully often become destroyers of life.”
“I don't really think about having had a hard life. It was just my life, and it's all I knew. It made me who I am - all the good and bad - and it's where all of the songs on Here For The Party came from. I've lived them all.”
“Preparation for old age should begin not later than one's teens. A life which is empty of purpose until 65 will not suddenly become filled on retirement.”
“Psychology is the Science of Mental Life, both of its phenomena and their conditions.”
“For morality life is a war, and the service of the highest is a sort of cosmic patriotism which also calls for volunteers.”
“I believe if life gives you lemons make lemonade…then find someone that life gave vodka to and have a party.”
“The only reason they come to see me is that I know that life is great / and they know I know it.”
“More socialism means more democracy, openness and collectivism in everyday life.”
“Jesus was the first socialist, the first to seek a better life for mankind.”
“i know i'll often stop and think about them // in my life i love you more”
“Love is wishing the past will be the future when it ends.”
“Learn to listen, then listen to learn”
“For the friendship of two, the patience of one is required.”
“Character cannot be developed in ease and quiet. Only through experiences of trial and suffering can the soul be strengthened, vision cleared, ambition inspired and success achieved.”
“Too often we underestimate the power of a touch, a smile, a kind word, a listening ear, an honest compliment, or the smallest act of caring, all of which have the potential to turn a life around.”
“No one can tell you why you are here on Earth. It is up to you to show them what you are here for.”
“The most human thing we have to do in life is is to learn to speak our honest convictions and feelings and live with the consequences. This is the first requirment of love, and it makes us vulnerable to other people who may ridicule us. But our vulnerability is the only thing we can give to other people.”
““If you do what you do well enough, long enough, consistently enough and fast enough, you will win the race.””
“Change is at the door, accompanied by anxiety and fear; if you dare to open it, you may find that opportunity lies on the other side.”
“Ghetto-dwellers are the great fantasists. There was an extraordinary vibrancy there, an imaginative life. When you are that poor, all you've got left is your belief in the imagination.”
“Prayer is the contemplation of the facts of life from the highest point of view.”
“A chief event in life is the day in which we have encountered a mind that startled us”
“Between eighteen and twenty, life is like an exchange where one buys stocks, not with money, but with actions. Most men buy nothing.”
“It's a small world until you have to walk somewhere”
“My audience was my life. What I did and how I did it, was all for my audience.”
“It came into him life, it went out from him truth. It came to him short-lived actions; it went from him poetry. It was a dead fact; now, it is quick thought. It can stand, and it can go. It now endures, it now flies, it now inspires. Precisely in porportion to the depth of mind from which it issued, so high does it soar, so long does it live.”
“Music is mediator between spiritual and sensual life.”
“Life is a series of steps. Things are done gradually. Once in a while there is a giant step, but most of the time we are taking small, seemingly insignificant steps on the stairway of life.”
“If you spend all day looking in the past then don't be suprised when life hits you in the back of the head.”
“There is no such thing as "just breathing," every breath is a reminder of life; life is not defined by breathing. It is defined by the one who first gave you that breath.”
“It’s never too late to be who you might have been!”
“Keep your dreams alive. Understand to achieve anything requires faith and belief in yourself, vision, hard work, determination, and dedication. Remember all things are possible for those who believe.”
“I don't believe in the after life, although I am bringing a change of underwear.”
“For time and the world do not stand still. Change is the law of life. And those who look only to the past or the present are certain to miss the future.”
“Three things cannot be long hidden: the sun, the moon, and the truth.”
“Life's like a pencil, you can erase it but don't erase so far that you forget what you wrote.”
“Once we accept our limits, we go beyond them.”
“It's only when we truly know and understand that we have a limited time on earth - and that we have no way of knowing when our time is up, we will then begin to live each day to the fullest, as if it was the only one we had.”
“Some of the biggest challenges in relationships come from the fact that most people enter a relationship in order to get something: they're trying to find someone who's going to make them feel good. In reality, the only way a relationship will last is if you see your relationship as a place that you go to give, and not a place that you go to take.”
“We do not believe in ourselves until someone reveals that deep inside us something is valuable, worth listening to, worthy of our trust, sacred to our touch. Once we believe in ourselves we can risk curiosity, wonder, spontaneous delight or any experience that reveals the human spirit.”
“You learn to speak by speaking, to study by studying, to run by running, to work by working; in just the same way, you learn to love by loving.”
“Life didn't promise to be wonderful.”
“No one who has lived even for a fleeting moment for something other than life in its conventional sense and has experienced the exaltation that this feeling produces can then renounce his new freedom so easily.”
“If time heals all hurt; will I live long enough?”
“Beer is proof that God loves us and wants us to be happy.”
“There lies within all beings an awakening. It is the hunger of life that seeks the dawn.”
“If you don't get what you want, you suffer; if you get what you don't want, you suffer; even when you get exactly what you want, you still suffer because you can't hold on to it forever. Your mind is your predicament. It wants to be free of change. Free of pain, free of the obligations of life and death. But change is a law, and no amount of pretending will alter that reality.”
“We don't read and write poetry because it's cute. We read and write poetry because we are members of the human race. And the human race is filled with passion.And medicine, law, business, engineering - these are noble pursuits and necessary to sustain life. But poetry, beauty, romance, love - these are what we stay alive for.”
“Nobody is perfect but me and you together is.”
“If someone is going down the wrong road, he doesn't need motivation to speed him up. What he needs is education to turn him around”
“Live so that when your children think of fairness and integrity, they think of you.”
“In wilderness I sense the miracle of life, and behind it our scientific accomplishments fade to trivia.”
“It is the paradox of life that the way to miss pleasure is to seek it first. The very first condition of lasting happiness is that a life should be full of purpose, aiming at something outside self.”
“(Poetry) a criticism of life under the conditions fixed for such a criticism by the laws of poetic truth and poetic beauty”
“Once in one's life, for one mortal moment, one must make a grab for immortality; if not, one has not lived.”
“Life is like Sanskrit read to a pony.”
“My life belongs the Lord Krishna now. I'm just the servant of Krishna. I've never been so humble in all my life, and I feel great.”
“You have to take life as it happens, but you should try to make it happen the way you want to take it”
“Life is too short”
“The joy in life is to be used for a purpose. I want to be used up when I die.”
“I'm having fun because I don't take it (life) seriously - the only things I care about are my family, friends, work and my lady, Sally. Philosophers for a long time have said 'why are we here?' - I'm here for the entertainment. If you're born in the world, you're given a ticket to the freak show; if you're born in America, you get a front row seat.”
“Women upset everything. When you let them into your life, you find that the woman is driving at one thing and you're driving at another.”
“People have always thought of me as someone who's very classical, 
when in fact I've led a rather unconventional life.”
“Life always gets harder toward the summit - the cold increases, the responsibility increases”
“As regards the celebrated ''struggle for life,'' it seems to me for the present to have been rather asserted than proved. It does occur, but as the exception; the general aspect of life is not hunger and distress, but rather wealth, luxury, even absurd prodigality -- where there is a struggle it is a struggle for power.”
“Let us beware of saying that death is the opposite of life. The living being is only a species of the dead, and a very rare species.”
“Art is the highest task and proper metaphysical activity of this life.”
“life was just a tire swing”
“Did you ever reach a point in your life, where you say to yourself, 'This is the best I'm ever going to look, the best I'm ever going to feel, the best I'm ever going to do,' and it ain't that great? (from "City Slickers")”
“It wasn't a matter of courage or dreams, but something a whole lot simpler. A pilot would call it ground orientation. I'd spent a long time circling above the clouds, looking for life, while Hallie was living it.”
“The life that neither grief nor burden knows
Is dwarfed in sympathy before its close.
The life that grows majestic with the years
Must taste the bitter tonic found in tears.”
“I can only say that whatever my life and work have been, I'm not envious of anyone-and this is my biggest satisfaction.”
“I tend to live in the past because most of my life is there.”
“God helps all the children as they move into a time of life they do not understand and must struggle through with precepts they have picked from the garbage can of older people, clinging with the passion of the lost to odds and ends that will mess th”
“On the last analysis, then, love is life. Love never faileth and life never faileth so long as there is love.”
“Therefore keep in the midst of life. Do not isolate yourself. Be among men and things, and among troubles, and difficulties, and obstacles.”
“The water of the fountain ran, the swift river ran, the day ran into evening, so much life in the city ran into death according to rule, time and tide waited for no man, the rats were sleeping close together in their dark holes again, the Fancy Ball was lighted up at supper, all things ran their course.”
“A still-born son os superior to a foolish son endowed with a long life. The first causes grief for but a moment while the latter like a blazing fire consumes his parents in grief for life.”
“Life often presents us with a choice of evils rather than of goods”
“Our planet / is poorly equipped / for delight./ One must snatch / gladness / from the days that are. / In this life / it's not difficult to die. / To make life / is more difficult by far.”
“I think I'll work all my life. When you're having fun, why stop having fun?”
“I played golf every day of my life nearly until a few years ago, except Sundays, and I gave it up. I'm not going to tell you why I gave it up -- but there wasn't enough exercise to me, and there's not enough money to pay those fees. I almost went to the government for a loan.”
“To be really great in little things, to be truly noble and heroic in the insipid details of everyday life, is a virtue so rare as to be worthy of canonization.”
“In all ranks of life the human heart yearns for the beautiful; and the beautiful things that God makes are his gift to all alike.”
“As I prepare for this next phase in my life, I ask that people continue to offer the prayers that have protected me thus far. I also pray that I will always see those who are not seen and easy to forget in the hustle and bustle of Washington politics.”
“Good writing excites me, and makes life worth living.”
“The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; and he that winneth souls is wise (Proverbs 11:30).”
“A life without love is a sinful and immoral thing.”
“What is my strength, that I should hope? and what is mine end, that I should prolong my life (Job 6:11)?”
“Her pupils were at once her salvation and her despair. They gave her the means of supporting life, but they made life hardly worth supporting.”
“Romanticism is not just a mode; it literally eats into every life. Women will never get rid of just waiting for the right man.”
“No more duty can be urged upon those who are entering the great theater of life than simple loyalty to their best convictions.”
“Will our life not be a tunnel between two vague clarities? Or will it not be a clarity between two dark triangles?”
“I didn't have anybody, really, no foundation in life, so I had to make my own way. Always, from the start. I had to go out in the world and become strong, to discover my mission in life.”
“Our mental make-up is suited to a life of very severe physical labor”
“Civilized life has altogether grown too tame, and, if it is to be stable, it must provide a harmless outlets for the impulses which our remote ancestors satisfied in hunting”
“All would live long; but none would be old”
“Were it offered to my choice, I should have no objection to a repetition of the same life from its beginning, only asking the advantages authors have in a second edition to correct some faults in the first”
“Dost thou love life? Then do not squander time, for that's the stuff life is made of.”
“I know that I will never find my father in any other man who comes into my life, because it is a void in my life that can only be filled by him.”
“Do not shorten the morning by getting up late; look upon it as the quintessence of life, as to a certain extent sacred”
“In poverty and other misfortunes of life, true friends are a sure refuge.”
“The best theology is rather a divine life than a divine knowledge”
“In the arena of human life the honors and rewards fall to those who show their good qualities in action”
“Hold fast to dreams, for when dreams go, life is a barren field, frozen with snow.”
“The chief danger in life is that you may take too many precautions.”
“It is the individual who is not interested in his fellow men who has the greatest difficulties in life and provides the greatest injury to others. It is from among such individuals that all human failures spring.”
“There is a woman who spent her life loving that evil creature: she died. I'm sure she's a saint in heaven right now. You are going to kill me the way he killed that woman.That is what's in store for all of us who have unselfish hearts.”
“The Spirit of God hath made me, and the breath of the Almighty hath given me life (Job 33:4).”
“The banishment for life of Pete Rose from baseball is a sad end if a sorry episode. One of the game's greatest players has engaged in a variety of acts which have stained the game, and he must now live with the consequences of those acts. There is absolutely no deal for reinstatement.”
“It wasn't until quite late in life that I discovered how easy it is to say, "I don't know”
“I can imagine no more comfortable frame of mind for the conduct of life than a humorous resignation”
“We're a long, long way from home. Home's a long, long way from us.”
“How does life become totally painful? By total retreat. Total noninspection becomes total pain.
[…]
But existence is basically composed of a very few truths onto which have hung a great many artificialities and which man has adorned with enormous numbers of lies. And man is prisoner of his own shadows. 
Now one of the things you can do with man is to get him to look up and find out that he can look through the shadows and look at the shadows and find out what they are.”
“A person with amnesia is looked upon as ill. What of a person who can remember only this life? Is this then not a case of amnesia on a grand scale?”
“The story of my life is about back entrances, side doors, secret elevators and other ways of getting in and out of places so that people won't bother me.”
“To me, if life boils down to one thing, it's movement. To live is to keep moving.”
“I look forward to coming back again. I've lost more than I've won in life, so, believe me, I'm pretty much understanding of the situation and I can deal with it. I can deal with adversity.”
“The greatest and proudest moment moment of my life standing on the podium receiving the silver medal on behalf of myself and Australia.”
“At every step the child should be allowed to meet the real experience of life; the thorns should never be plucked from his roses”
“It would not have been possible for any man in public life to get through what I have gone through without the devoted assistance of what we in England call one's better half.”
“We must declare ourselves, become known; allow the world to discover this subterranean life of ours which connects kings and farm boys, artists and clerks. Let them see that the important thing is not the object of love, but the emotion itself.”
“After four tortured years, more than 400 over life-sized figures, I felt as old and as weary as Jeremiah. I was only 37, yet friends did not recognize the old man I had become.”
“Life happens too fast for you ever to think about it. If you could just persuade people of this, but they insist on amassing information.”
“We cannot banish dangers, but we can banish fears. We must not demean life by standing in awe of death.”
“It is more fitting for a man to laugh at life than to lament over it.”
“one of the truly lucky things that happened to me in my life.”
“Early in life, I was visited by the bluebird of anxiety”
“The man whose life is devoted to paperwork has lost the initiative. He is dealing with things that are brought to his notice, having ceased to notice anything for himself.”
“What childishness is it that while there's breath of life in our bodies, we are determined to rush to see the sun the other way around?”
“Whatever the scientists may say, if we take the supernatural out of life, we leave only the unnatural.”
“Sinatra created a kind of magic. You want those people to be part of your life.”
“The secret of having a personal life is not answering too many questions about it.”
“Hollywood is like life, you face it with the sum total of your equipment.”
“Three times in my life I have been captured: by the orphanage, by school, and by the Army. But I'm mistaken. The fact is I was captured only once, when I was born, only that capture is also setting free, which is what this is actually all about. The”
“Obscurity and competence - that is the life that is best worth living”
“The first half of life consists of the capacity to enjoy without the chance; the last half of life consists of the chance without the capacity”
“Life is like a dance one must know when to move and when not to, and never to hesitate.”
“I learned very early in life that: "Without a song, the day would never end; without a friend, a man ain't got a friend; without a song, the road would never bend- without a song" So I keep singing a song.”
“If there's not drama and negativity in my life, all my songs will be really wack and boring or something.”
“When you have seen as much of life as I have, you will not underestimate the power of obsessive love.”
“All my life I've been dealing with my race because of where I grew up [Detroit] and being in the rap game. I'm at a boiling point...Anybody who pulls the race card is getting it right back in their face.”
“I might give my life for a friend, but he'd better not ask me to do up a parcel.”
“Life excites me. I'm not talking about appearing in movies or doing interviews, but just little, normal, everyday things. Getting out of bed. Getting dressed. Making food. I find it all exciting, you know ?”
“I don't live a very posh life. There are no drivers waiting or people doing everything for me. I pretty much live like a normal person. . . . It's not good to have a life without responsibilities, you know ?.”
“It was a very good experience. It wasn't just to make a movie, it was my life. I was employed at The Lord of the Rings for a year and a half.”
“Look at my life. I'm floating like mercury around the earth. My footprints shine with stardust. All because I love you. All because you love me.”
“When one is anxious only to live, he easily, in this solicitude, forgets the enjoyment of life. If his only concern is for life, and he thinks "if I only have my dear life," he does not apply his full strength to using, i. e., enjoying, life.”
“The beauty of life depends upon our good habits.”
“You can't ignore what some bands have done. I know that from my own experience, from the way my life was changed by F**k Armageddon, This Is Hell by Bad Religion. I know our record will be in a bin next to Lionel Richie--but so are John Coltrane, KRS-1 and Boogie Down Productions, and Public Enemy.”
“No man is a failure who enjoys life”
“It is now life and not art that requires the willing suspension of disbelief”
“Those who tell the young man to live well and the old man to die well is nothing but a fool, not only for what life has in happiness to both young and old, but also for one must be careful in live honestly as well as die honestly."”
“No human trait deserves less tolerance in everyday life, and gets less, than intolerance”
“No wonder people are so horrible when they start life as children.”
“Now my joys are few, and my pains are many. In utter agony, I pass my life.”
“What a wonderful life I've had! I only wish I'd realized it sooner”
“Everyone is necessarily the hero of his own life story.”
“. . . life involves maintaining oneself between contradictions that can't be solved by analysis.”
“Life, friends, is boring. We must not say so. After all, the sky flashes, the great sea yearns, we ourselves flash and yearn, and moreover my mother told me as a boy (repeatedly) ''Ever to confess you're bored means you have no inner Resources'.' I conclude now I have no inner resources, because I am heavy bored.”
“I came to the conclusion long ago that all life is six to five against.”
“The answer to old age is to keep one's mind busy and to go on with one's life as if it were interminable. I always admired Chekhov for building a new house when he was dying of tuberculosis.”
“Nothing in life is more wonderful than faith - the one great moving force which we can neither weigh in the balance nor test in the crucible”
“Civilization is a conspiracy. Modern life is the silent compact of comfortable folk to keep up pretences.”
“The essence of morality is a questioning about morality; and the decisive move of human life is to use ceaselessly all light to look for the origin of the opposition between good and evil.”
“Take care of your life and the Lord will take care of your death.”
“One aspect of modern life which has gone far to stifle men is the rapid growth of tremendous corporations. Enormous spiritual sacrifices are made in the transformation of shopkeepers into employees. . . . The disappearance of free enterprise has led to a submergence of the individual in the impersonal corporation in much the same manner as he has been submerged in the state in other lands.”
“Work is life for me, it is the only point of life-and with it there is almost religious belief that service is everything.”
“[life it] a blister on top of a tumour, and a boil on top of that.”
“We already know enough to begin to cope with all the major problems that are now threatening human life and much of the rest of life on earth. Our crisis is not a crisis of information; it is a crisis of decision of policy and action.”
“Security is not the meaning of my life. Great opportunities are worth the risks.”
“Football features two of the worst aspects of American life, violence and committee meetings.”
“We lived long together
a life filled,
if you will,
with flowers. So that
I was cheered
when I came first to know
that there were flowers also
in hell.”
“My life has been a series of emergencies.”
“Have a nice rest of your life.”
“I've never been so excited to have people walk all over me for the rest of my life.”
“Surely among a rich man's flowering lawns,
Amid the rustle of his planted hills,
Life overflows without ambitious pains;
And rains down life until the basin spills,
And mounts more dizzy high the more it rains
As though to choose whatever shape it wills. . . .”
“A reporter is a man who has renounced everything in life but the world, the flesh, and the Devil”
“My darling girl, Unfortunately this earth is not a fairy-land, but a struggle for life, perfectly natural and therefore extremely harsh. All the same, or precisely for this reason, it is happiness and comfort for us men to have a precious sweetheart -- and I have the most precious, the dearest and best of all!”
“There are three principles in a man's being and life, the principle of thought, the principle of speech, and the principle of action. The origin of all conflict between me and my fellow-men is that I do not say what I mean and I don't do what I say.”
“A play is made by sensing how the forces in life simulate ignorance-you set free the concealed irony, the deadly joke.”
“Johnny Cash has always been larger than life.”
“If critics have problems with my personal life, it's their problem. Anybody with half a brain would realize that it's the charts that count.”
“In ten phrases, the ten commandments express the essential of life. And these three words-liberty, equality, and fraternity-do just as much. Millions of people have died for those ideals.”
“Life is generally something that happens elsewhere.”
“There is no security in life, only opportunity.”
“Look to the future, because that is where you'll spend the rest of your life.”
“Perhaps, on the whole, embarrassment and perplexity are a kind of natural accompaniment to life and movement; and it is better to be driven out of your senses with thinking which of two things you ought to do than to do nothing whatever, and be utterly uninteresting to all the world.”
“Coming to terms with the rhythms of women's lives means coming to terms with life itself, accepting the imperatives of the body rather than the imperatives of an artificial, man-made, perhaps transcendentally beautiful civilization. Emphasis on the male work-rhythm is an emphasis on infinite possibilities; emphasis on the female rhythms is an emphasis on a defined pattern, on limitation.”
“Many persons have an idea that one cannot be in business and lead an upright life, whereas the truth is that no one succeeds in business to any great extent, who misleads or misrepresents”
“All my life I've kinda dreamed of being the best, and doing the best, and it hasn't always been easy for me. So I've been trying, but it's really special to have come such a long way, it's just really fulfilling. And the fact that I'm just making history right now and the fact that I was able to win four in a row, it doesn't happen every day.”
“All of us are born for a reason, but all of us don't discover why. Success in life has nothing to do with what you gain in life or accomplish for yourself. It's what you do for others.”
“The clog of all pleasure, the luggage of life,
Is the best can be said for a very good wife.”
“The only objection against the Bible is a bad life”
“I hate racial discrimination most intensely and all its manifestations. I have fought all my life; I fight now, and will do so until the end of my days. Even although I now happen to be tried by one, whose opinion I hold in high esteem, I detest most violently the set-up that surrounds me here. It makes me feel that I am a Black man in a White man's court. This should not be I should feel perfectly at ease and at home with the assurance that I am being tried by a fellow South African, who does not regard me as an inferior, entitled to a special type of justice.”
“Many Continentals think life is a game; the English think cricket is a game”
“A man who keeps a diary pays, Due toll to many tedious days; But life becomes eventful - then, His busy hand forgets the pen. Most books, indeed, are records less Of fulness than of emptiness.”
“Great physicians and nurses, skilled, caring and unparalleled in their training, intervened in my life and probably saved it. I was lucky but other Americans are not. It is time to speak again and stand again for the ideal that in the richest nation ever on this planet, it is wrong for 41 million Americans, most of them in working families, to worry at night and wake up in the morning without the basic protection of health insurance.”
“Your life changes. Everything has to be done perfectly, and I didn't follow that. I lived my life as if I wasn't in the public eye. I thought, 'I'm young. I have the right to experience new things, and if I want to go to a bar and get drunk, that's my prerogative.'”
“The hardship and suffering caused by unemployment penetrates every area of life. While politicians are tallying up the economic costs of unemployment, I wish they'd be more aware of the social and moral consequences which are unparalleled in many nat”
“Let everyone try and find that as a result of daily prayer he adds something new to his life, something with which nothing can be compared.”
“Secret of life is to go through something harrowing that doesn't kill you...and to love one woman for the rest of your life.”
“I want to resume the life of a shy person.”
“There must be a goal at every stage of life! There must be a goal!”
“It's amazing the life that I’m living today, and I count my blessings every day for the gifts
that God has given me.”
“There are two great rules of life: never tell everything at once”
“Why should I let the toad work Squat on my life? Can't I use my wit as a pitchfork and drive the brute off?”
“So long as the system of competition in the production and exchange of the means of life goes on, the degradation of the arts will go on; and if that system is to last for ever, then art is doomed, and will surely die; that is to say, civilization will die.”
“It doesn't bother me to talk about my private life, it doesn't bother me to talk about anything. My life is like a glass of water, transparent”
“I've just gone through so much in my life that pulling my top up just doesn't seem like that big a deal.”
“If something comes to life in others because of you, then you have made an approach to immortality.”
“There is a strange reluctance on the part of most people to admit they enjoy life.”
“The early Christian rules of life were not made to last, because the early Christians did not believe that the world itself was going to last.”
“There are numerous bugbears in the profession of a politician. First, ordinary life suffers. Second, there are many temptations to ruin you and those around you. And I suppose third, and this is rarely discussed, people at the top generally have no friends.”
“Nuclear weapons can wipe out life on Earth, if used properly”
“I had to fight all my life to survive. They were all against me... but I beat the bastards and left them in the ditch.”
“A life lived of choice is a life of conscious action. A life lived of chance is a life of unconscious creation”
“Army life was rough. Would you believe it, they actually wanted me to pitch three times a week.”
“Although the whole of this life were said to be nothing but a dream and the physical world nothing but a phantasm, I should call this dream or phantasm real enough, if, using reason well, we were never deceived by it.”
“Believe in life! Always human beings will live and progress to greater, broader, and fuller life.”
“Among the notable things about fire is that it also requires oxygen to burn - exactly like its enemy, life. Thereby are life and flames so often compared.”
“My cancer scare changed my life. I'm grateful for every new, healthy day I have. It has helped me prioritize my life.”
“The key to accepting responsibility for your life is to accept the fact that your choices, every one of them, are leading you inexorably to either success or failure, however you define those terms.”
“A large part of my life revolves around my dad. Sometimes, I even feel a strong sense of connection, something very tangible when I learn something new in the martial arts.”
“In America, life is one long expectoration”
“If you meet at dinner a man who has spent his life in educating himself you rise from the table richer, and conscious that a high ideal has for a moment touched and sanctified your days.”
“His life was gentle, and the elements / So mix'd in him that Nature might stand up / And say to all the world, / This was a man!”
“The truth is rarely pure and never simple. Modern life would be very tedious if it were either, and modern literature a complete impossibility!”
“O God! methinks it were a happy life,
To be no better than a homely swain;
To sit upon a hill, as I do now,
To carve out dials quaintly, point by point,
Thereby to see the minutes how they run,
How many make the hour full complete;
How many hours bring about the day;
How many days will finish up the year;
How many years a mortal man may live.”
“If you do not feel yourself growing in your work and your life broadening and deepening, if your task is not a perpetual tonic to you, you have not found your place.”
“Music has always been my back door to life. It is important for people to find something that excites them. I like the concept that if you do what excites you, you will be rewarded generously, whatever form reward takes, which is not necessarily money.”
“Taking food alone tends to make one hard and coarse. Those accustomed to it must lead a Spartan life if they are not to go downhill. Hermits have observed, if for only this reason, a frugal diet. For it is only in company that eating is done justice; food must be divided and distributed if it is to be well received.”
“Counsel woven into the fabric of real life is wisdom.”
“Life isn't worth living if I miss an episode”
“'The Color Purple' has long been a part of my life, from the first time I read it over 20 years ago until now, I've always wanted as many people as possible to experience this story, ... To present this Broadway production is a dream come true and a full circle moment for me.”
“The Eucharistic mystery stands at the heart and center of the liturgy since it is the fount of life by which we are cleansed and strengthened to live not for ourselves but for God and to be united in love among ourselves.”
“Hatred strikes me as one of the few signs of life remaining in the world. This is another thing about the world which is upsidedown: all the friendly and likable people seem dead to me; only the haters seem alive.”
“I believe you make your day. You make your life. So much of it is all perception, and this is the form that I built for myself. I have to accept it and work within those compounds, and it's up to me.”
“You can get all A's and flunk life.”
“I have always had the courage for the new things that life sometimes offers...”
“nothing in life is promised except death”
“There is only one real happiness in life, and that is the happiness of creating”
“Mum and dad were very much friends, and up to life. There was no anxiety for anything when I was growing up, they just taught me to be me.”
“The future of humanity is uncertain, even in the most prosperous countries, and the quality of life deteriorates; and yet I believe that what is being discovered about the infinitely large and infinitely small is sufficient to absolve this end of the century and millennium. What a very few are acquiring in knowledge of the physical world will perhaps cause this period not to be judged as a pure return of barbarism.”
“For me chemistry represented an indefinite cloud of future potentialities which enveloped my life to come in black volutes torn by fiery flashes, like those which had hidden Mount Sinai. Like Moses, from that cloud I expected my law, the principle of order in me, around me, and in the world. I would watch the buds swell in spring, the mica glint in the granite, my own hands, and I would say to myself: ''I will understand this, too, I will understand everything.''”
“Don't let anyone tell you that you have to be a certain way. Be unique. Be what you feel.”
“I’d rather be hated for who I am…than loved for someone I’m not…I’m definitely not perfect…but work with what I’ve got…I can be stubborn…and maybe a little too bold…when life gets rough…I don’t give up instead I take hold…I’m passionate about life…and love to dream…yep I’m exactly…who I want to be…my heart is open wide…with plenty of room to grow…you can take me as I am…or watch me as I go…”
“The great mass of women throughout history have been confined to the cultural level of animal life in providing the male with sexual outlet and exercising the animal functions of reproduction and care of the young.”
“if you have the opportunity to play this game of life you need to appreciate every moment. a lot of people don`t appreciate the moment until it`s passed”
“I don't think I realized that the cost of fame is that it's open season on every moment of your life.”
“Revenge is sweet, sweeter than life itself - so say fools”
“Books say: she did this because. Life says: she did this. Books are where things are explained to you, life where things aren't.”
“My life, my career has been like a roller coaster. I've either been an enormous success or just a down-and-out failure.”
“In order to live a fully human life we require not only control of our bodies (though control is a prerequisite); we must touch the unity and resonance of our physicality, our bond with the natural order, the corporeal grounds of our intelligence.”
“Listen to your life. See it for the fathomless mystery that it is. In the boredom and pain of it no less than in the excitement and gladness: touch, taste, smell your way to the holy and hidden heart of it because in the last analysis all moments are key moments, and life itself is grace.”
“I can't make head or tail of Life. Love is a fine thing, Art is a fine thing, Nature is a fine thing; but the average human mind and spirit are confusing beyond measure. Sometimes I think that all our learning is the little learning of the maxim. To laugh at a Roman awe-stricken in a sacred grove is to laugh at something today.”
“Hitchcock loves to be misunderstood, because he has based his whole life around misunderstandings.”
“"What Can I do?", You say, It's just another day in the life of Apes with ego trips”
“However we may pity the mother whose health and even life is imperiled by the performance of her natural duty, there yet remains no sufficient reason for condoning the direct murder of the innocent”
“I never read the life of any important person without discovering that he knew more and could do more than I could ever hope to know or do in half a dozen lifetimes.”
“You have to pretend that your life is a financial pleasure even when your autographs are bouncing.”
“It's much easier for me to make major life, multi-million dollar decisions, than it is to decide on a carpet for my front porch. That's the truth.”
“To be always intending to make a new and better life but never to find time to set about it is as to put off eating and drinking and sleeping from one day to the next until you're dead”
“There is nothing more enticing, disenchanting, and enslaving than the life at sea.”
“We seem to be made to suffer. It's our lot in life.”
“The joy of life is variety; the tenderest love requires to be rekindled by intervals of absence”
“Prudence operates on life in the same manner as rule of composition; it produces vigilance rather than elevation; rather prevents loss than procures advantage; and often miscarriages, but seldom reaches either power or honor.”
“Meditation is the life of the soul: Action, the soul of meditation. and honor the reward of action.”
“You can preach a better sermon with your life than with your lips.”
“I may be revered or defamed and decried; But I tried to live my life right.”
“The poet begins where the man ends. The man's lot is to live his human life, the poet's to invent what is nonexistent.”
“In order to master the unruly torrent of life the learned man meditates, the poet quivers, and the political hero erects the fortress of his will.”
“In a very ugly and sensible age, the arts borrow, not from life, but from each other.”
“Broadway is a main artery of New York life - the hardened artery”
“It is sweet to dance to violins/ When Love and Life are fair:/ To dance to flutes, to dance to lutes/ Is delicate and rare:/ But it is not sweet with nimble feet/ To dance upon the air!”
“The first duty of life is to be as artificial as possible. What the second duty is no one as yet discovered.”
“Newspapers. . . give us the bald, sordid, disgusting facts of life. They chronicle, with degrading avidity, the sins of the second-rate, and with the conscientiousness of the illiterate give us accurate and prosaic details. . .”
“There are a good many real miseries in life that we cannot help smiling at, but they are the smiles that make wrinkles and not dimples”
“All that I desire to point out is the general principle that life imitates art far more than art imitates life.”
“As I live and am a man, this is an unexaggerated tale -- my dreams become the substances of my life.”
“My life collapsed. People ran from me because suddenly it was 'Oh my God! It's over for her now!' (On her split with Tom Cruise)”
“Boyhood is the longest time in life for a boy. The last term of the school-year is made of decades, not of weeks, and living through them is like waiting for the millennium.”
“Literature always anticipates life. It does not copy it, but molds it to its purpose.”
“I must down to the seas again to the vagrant gypsy life,To the gull's way and the whale's way where the wind's like a whetted knife; And all I ask is a merry yarn from a laughing fellow-rover, And quiet sleep and a sweet dream when the long trick's o”
“You may not have saved a lot of money in your life, but if you have saved a lot of heartaches for other folks, you are a pretty rich man.”
“What a rotten writer of detective stories life is!”
“So much of life is paradox. So much of life is neither one thing nor the other... it's both things at the same time.”
“I'm not used to crying. . . . It's a little difficult. All my life I've had to fight. It's just another fight I'm going to have to learn how to win, that's all. I'm just going to have to keep smiling.”
“Life is an error-making and an error-correcting process, and nature in marking man's papers will grade him for wisdom as measured both by survival and by the quality of life of those who survive.”
“The Olympic Movement gives the world an ideal which reckons with the reality of life, and includes a possibility to guide this reality toward the great Olympic Idea.”
“sometimes i sit and look at life from a different angle.”
“I came into the world a Jew, and although I did not live my life entirely as a Jew, I think it is fitting that I should leave as a Jew. I don't want to turn my back on a great and noble heritage.”
“Life's a wheel of fortune and it's my chance to spin it”
“Why am I Dying to Live, When I'm just Living to Die, Why am I Trying to see when there ain't nothing in sight, Why am I Trying to Give when no one Gives me a try.”
“In my early life, and probably even today, it is not sufficiently understood that a child's education should include at least a rudimentary grasp of religion, sex, and money. Without a basic knowledge of these three primary facts in a normal human being's life /subjects which stir the emotions, create events and opportunities, and if they do not wholly decide must greatly influence an individual's personality /no human being's education can have a safe foundation.”
“If this invisible germ of life in the grain of wheat can thus pass unimpaired through three thousand resurrections, I shall not doubt that my soul has power to clothe itself with a body suited to its new existence when this earthly frame has crumbled into dust.”
“Thug Life hit me like the Holy ghost.”
“The first rule in opera is the first rule in life: see to everything yourself.”
“Life comes before literature, as the material always comes before the work. The hills are full of marble before the world blooms with statues.”
“Animation is about creating the illusion of life. And you can't create it if you don't have one.”
“I was just tired of losing. . . . Life was passing me by.”
“If you can go through life without experiencing pain you probably haven't been born yet.”
“Any consideration of the life and larger social existence of the modern corporate man begins and also largely ends with the effect of one all-embracing force. That is organization -- the highly structured assemblage of men, and now some women, of which he is a part. It is to this, at the expense of family, friends, sex, recreation and sometimes health and effective control of alcoholic intake, that he is expected to devote his energies.”
“The game of life is like the game of boomerangs, deeds and words return to us sooner or later with astounding accuracy”
“For all of us who are alive, life is the real issue. Yet so often we judge our existence by the things that happen to us—by whether things are going our way or not. Sometimes we feel strong—strong enough to dictate our future. Sometimes we feel that we can make things happen. Then there are times when we feel totally helpless. But through all the dramas and bumps, there is life. There is the very powerful, very existence of every single human being”
“You have to go out there and give a piece of yourself -- your life, your soul. And you better give the audience everything you can -- physically, emotionally, musically. Then maybe they'll accept you and give you a standing ovation at the end.”
“Even a minor event in the life of a child is an event of that child's world and thus a world event.”
“Too many people in America believe that if you are pro-choice that means pro-abortion. It doesn't. I don't want abortion. Abortion should be the rarest thing in the world. I am actually personally opposed to abortion. But I don't believe that I have a right to take what is an article of faith to me and legislate it to other people. That's not how it works in America.”
“Most people spend their lives either in the past or the future, but my life is supremely concentrated in the present..”
“No sooner do we think we have assembled a comfortable life than we find a piece of ourselves that has no place to fit in”
“The business of the law is to make sense of the confusion of what we call human life - to reduce it to order but at the same time to give it possibility, scope, even dignity.”
“If you believe that [Anna Kournikova's claim that she is a virgin], I've never questioned a call in my life.”
“I'm getting to a point where everything is becoming streamlined in my life. I'm learning how to stand onstage for two hours and play in front of thousands of people as if I am completely in the moment every moment.”
“All I can say about life is, Oh God, enjoy it!”
“The secret of life is never to have an emotion that is unbecoming.”
“Conflicts may be the sources of defeat, lost life and a limitation of our potentiality but they may also lead to greater depth of living and the birth of more far-reaching unities, which flourish in the tensions that engender them”
“Custom is the great guide to human life”
“The great business of life is to be, to do, to do without, and to depart”
“On the whole, I am on the side of the unregenerate who affirms the worth of life as an end in itself, as against the saints who deny it.”
“There is one expanding horror in American life. It is that our long odyssey toward liberty, democracy and freedom-for-all may be achieved in such a way that utopia remains forever closed, and we live in freedom and hell, debased of style, not individual from one another, void of courage, our fear rationalized away.”
“Business life, whether among ourselves or with other people, is even a sharp struggle for success. It will be none the less so in the future. Without competition we would be clinging to the clumsy antiquated processes of farming and manufacture and the methods of business of long ago, and the twentieth would be no further advanced than the eighteenth century.”
“I refuse to spend my life worrying about what I eat. There is no pleasure worth forgoing just for an extra three years in the geriatric ward.”
“I love life and nothing intimidates me anymore.”
“Can you imagine the Founding Fathers saying that the major source of authority in [your] life can make you drop your pants and urinate as a condition of getting or keeping a job?”
“Asking Europe to disarm is like asking a man in Chicago to give up his life insurance.”
“Life would be dull without them.”
“A well-tied tie is the first serious step in life.”
“LORD ILLINGWORTH: The Book of Life begins with a man and a woman in a garden. / MRS. ALLONBY: It ends with Revelations.”
“Life is so generous a giver, but we, judging its gifts by the covering, cast them away as ugly or heavy or hard. Remove the covering and you will find beneath it a living splendor, woven of love, by wisdom, with power.”
“Abasement, degradation is simply the manner of life of the man who has refused to be what it is his duty to be.”
“My whole life has been a lie.”
“I hate the phrase 'former porn queen.' That part of my life was a long time ago. Think of something else to call me... I'm successful in spite of my past, not because of it.”
“But as the arms-control scholar Thomas Schelling once noted, two things are very expensive in international life: promises when they succeed and threats when they fail”
“I am prepared to share my life with people,”
“In everyone there sleeps / A sense of life lived according to love. / To some it means the difference they could make / By loving others, but across most it sweeps / As all they might have done had they been loved. / That nothing cures.”
“I am a Marxist Leninist and I will be one until the last day of my life.”
“I didn't mean to give you the impression that life at the cathedral is like Barchester Towers as written by Dostoyevsky and heavily edited by John Updike.”
“As for a spoiled life, no life is spoiled but one whose growth is arrested.”
“I realized that Eastern thought had somewhat more compassion for all living things. Man was a form of life that in another reincarnation might possibly be a horsefly or a bird of paradise or a deer. So a man of such faith, looking at animals, might be looking at old friends or ancestors.”
“From the death of the old the new proceeds, and the life of truth from the death of creeds.”
“Our conscience is not the vessel of eternal verities. It grows with our social life, and a new social condition means a radical change in conscience.”
“A visual experience is vitalizing. Whereas to write great poetry, to draw continuously on one's inner life, is not merely exhausting, it is to keep alight a consuming fire.”
“Art is a spiritual, immaterial respite from the hardships of life”
“He that embarks on the voyage of life will always wish to advance rather by the impulse of the wind than the strokes of the oar; and many fold in their passage; while they lie waiting for the gale.'”
“For a list of all the ways technology has failed to improve the quality of life, please press three.”
“Publicity, publicity, publicity is the greatest moral factor and force in our public life”
“Work isn't to make money; you work to justify life.”
“In the life of children there are two very clear-cut phases, before and after puberty. Before puberty the child's personality has not yet formed and it is easier to guide its life and make it acquire specific habits of order, discipline, and work: after puberty the personality develops impetuously and all extraneous intervention becomes odious, tyrannical, insufferable. Now it so happens that parents feel the responsibility towards their children precisely during this second period, when it is too late: then of course the stick and violence enter the scene and yield very few results indeed. Why not instead take an interest in the child during the first period?”
“I look upon life as a gift from God. I did nothing to earn it. Now that the time is coming to give it back, I have no right to complain.”
“Tears are sometimes an inappropriate response to death. When a life has been lived completely honestly, completely successfully, or just completely, the correct response to death's perfect punctuation mark is a smile.”
“Do you want to tear your life apart and get rid of everything you've known as a lifestyle? Like seeing your family? Being with your friends? A fishing trip? A hunting trip? A night's sleep?”
“To regard the imagination as metaphysics is to think of it as part of life, and to think of it as part of life is to realize the extent of artifice. We live in the mind.”
“To be with the same person for the rest of your life just sounds so drab.”
“We have long forgotten the ritual by which the house of our life was erected. But when it is under assault and enemy bombs are already taking their toll, what enervated, perverse antiquities do they not lay bare in the foundations.”
“I'll make music, whether or not anyone is listening, for the rest of my life. It's a natural form of expression for me, the same way I draw and write and sing.”
“We see in these swift and skillful travelers a symbol of our life, which seeks to be a pilgrimage and a passage on this earth for the way of heaven.”
“Religion was nearly dead because there was no longer real belief in future life; but something was struggling to take its place -- service -- social service -- the ants creed, the bees creed.”
“I love life because what more is there.”
“The proclamation and repetition of first principles is a constant feature of life in our democracy. Active adherence to these principles, however, has always been considered un-American. We recipients of the boon of liberty have always been ready, when faced with discomfort, to discard any and all first principles of liberty, and, further, to indict those who do not freely join with us in happily arrogating those principles.”
“If you let your fear of consequence prevent you from following your deepest instinct, your life will be safe, expedient and thin.”
“Cultivated men and women who do not skim the cream of life, and are attached to the duties, yet escape the harder blows, make acute and balanced observers”
“Capital punishment is our society's recognition of the sanctity of human life.”
“The act of dying is one of the acts of life.”
“What's nice about my dating life is that I don't have to leave my house. All I have to do is read the paper: I'm marrying Richard Gere, dating Daniel Day-Lewis, parading around with John F. Kennedy, Jr., and even Robert De Niro was in there for a day.”
“In order for the wheel to turn, for life to be lived, impurities are needed, and the impurities of impurities in the soil, too, as is known, if it is to be fertile. Dissension, diversity, the grain of salt and mustard are needed: Fascism does not want them, forbids them, and that's why you're not a Fascist; it wants everybody to be the same, and you are not. But immaculate virtue does not exist either, or if it exists it is detestable.”
“Life is like a box of sardines and we are all looking for the key”
“To deny sex is to deny life. To reject art is to impoverish yourself, rejecting pleasure and growth. To accept sex and art together is to add to oneself, to be positive instead of negative. Erotic cinema . . . reveals us to ourselves with increasing artistry.”
“For parlor use, the vague generality is a life saver.”
“For neither birth, nor wealth, nor honors, can awaken in the minds of men the principles which should guide those who from their youth aspire to an honorable and excellent life, as Love awakens them”
“Don't give your opinions about Art and the Purpose of Life. They are of little interest and, anyway, you can't express them. Don't analyze yourself. Give the relevant facts and let your readers make their own judgments. Stick to your story. It is not the most important subject in history but it is one about which you are uniquely qualified to speak.”
“The life of the dead is placed in the memory of the living.”
“Junk is not, like alcohol or weed, a means to increased enjoyment of life. Junk is not a kick. It is a way of life.”
“This is our purpose: to make as meaningful as possible this life that has been bestowed upon us; to live in such a way that we may be proud of ourselves; to act in such a way that some part of us lives on.”
“There have been times when I have deliberately tried to take my life... I think I must have been crying for some attention.”
“Life is like a cash register, in that every account, every thought, every deed, like every sale, is registered and recorded.”
“Give us the luxuries of life, and we will dispense with its necessaries”
“When I consider life, 'tis all a cheat. Yet, fooled by hope, men favour the deceit; trust on, and think to-morrow will repay: to-morrow's falser than the former day.”
“When I consider life, 'tis all a cheat yet, fool'd by hope, men favour the deceit”
“The creative writer uses his life as well as being its victim; he can control, in his work, the self-presentation that in actuality is at the mercy of a thousand accidents.”
“Only when a republic's life is in danger should a man uphold his government when it is wrong. There is no other time.”
“Whoever has lived long enough to find out what life is, knows how deep a debt of gratitude we owe to Adam, the first great benefactor of our race. He brought death into the world.”
“There are two times in a man's life when he should not speculate: when he can't afford it, and when he can”
“Experience of life (not of books) is the only capital usable in such a book as you have attempted; one can make no judicious use of this capital while it is new”
“It is easier to influence strong than weak characters in life”
“This life is a war we are not yet winning for our daughters' children./ Don't do your enemies' work for them./ Finish your own.”
“Acting is the expression of a neurotic impulse. It's a bum's life. The principal benefit acting has afforded me is the money to pay for my psychoanalysis.”
“I’ve been playing against older and stronger competition my whole life. It has made me a better tennis player and able to play against this kind of level despite their strength and experience.”
“I know I can be diva-ish sometimes, but I have to be in control. The nature of my life, the nature of what I do, is divadom, it really is.”
“I am amazed about how everyone wants to know about my love life. They whisper to me, 'Tell me the truth? Is it true?' Who cares? Because we have this job, we are to say to everybody what we do, or with whom we sleep? It's a bit absurd, but that's why everybody lies so much.”
“I'm not one of those people that goes into details of my personal life on national TV to get attention. Some things are better left unsaid.”
“The rest of my life will be devoted to women and litigation”
“I have lived long enough. My way of life is to fall into the sere, the yellow leaf, and that which should accompany old age, as honor, love, obedience, troops of friends I must not look to have.”
“You take my life when you do take the means whereby I live.”
“It doesn't bother me at all. Do I hold any hard feelings? Not at all, ... Life is too short to sit around and hold grudges. I don't hold any whatsoever.”
“Globalization is a fact of life. But I believe we have underestimated its fragility.”
“The Cube is an imitation of life itself - or even an improvement on life.”
“People only talk about what a joyous experience it is, but there is terror: Your life, as you know it, is over. It's over the day that child is born. It's over, and something completely new starts.”
“Oh, for God's sake . . . get a life, will you?”
“An easy-going husband is the one indispensable comfort of life”
“One thing that makes art different from life is that in art things have a shape... it allows us to fix our emotions on events at the moment they occur, it permits a union of heart and mind and tongue and tear.”
“Films and gramophone records, music, books and buildings show clearly how vigorously a man's life and work go on after his ''death,'' whether we feel it or not, whether we are aware of the individual names or not. There is no such thing as death according to our view!”
“Whatever they may be in public life, whatever their relations with men, in their relations with women, all men are rapists and that's all they are. They rape us with their eyes, their laws, their codes.”
“At first, I only laughed at myself. Then I noticed that life itself is amusing. I've been in a generally good 
“(On sleep) Is it just the interval of life rudely interrupted by the static of having to please the boss at home or the one at the office or is it the waking state of cosmic beings where consciousness is just a human invention?”
“I am content to live it all again
And yet again, if it be life to pitch
Into the frog-spawn of a blind man's ditch,
A blind man battering blind men.”
“Never to have lived is best, ancient writers say;
Never to have drawn the breath of life, never to have looked into the eye of day;
The second best's a gay goodnight and quickly turn away.”
“If I take death into my life, acknowledge it, and face it squarely, I will free myself from the anxiety of death and the pettiness of life - and only then will I be free to become myself.”
“My view is that to get anywhere in life you have to be anti-social, otherwise you'll end up being devoured. I've never been particularly social, anyway, but if I've ever been rude, fifty per cent of it has usually been provoked by other people's attitudes. Though I do admit, like most Celts, I'm moody. It's fine until people try to cheer you up with gems like, 'snap out of it' or 'Come on, now'.”
“Like Confucius of old, I am so absorbed in the wonder of the earth and the life upon it, that I cannot think of heaven and the angels.”
“The simplest schoolboy is now familiar with truths for which Archimedes would have sacrificed his life.”
“Every minute you spend in your life is either spent bringing you closer to your goals or moving you away from your goals.”
“Make food a very incidental part of your life by filling your life so full of meaningful things that you'll hardly have time to think about food.”
“If you are going to ask yourself life-changing questions, be sure to do something with the answers.”
“Now, it should be incandescently clear that no one who has any concern for the integrity and life of America today can ignore the present war. If America's soul becomes totally poisoned, part of the autopsy must read Vietnam.”
“People who come from dysfunctional families are not destined for a dysfunctional life.”
“As to the presidency, the two happiest days of my life were those of my entrance upon the office and my surrender of it.”
“Everything starts with yourself / with you making up your mind about what you're going to do with your life. I tell kids that it's a cruel world, and that the world will bend them either left or right, and it's up to them to decide which way to bend.”
“There is no evidence that at any time during its history the cat's way of life and its reception into human homesteads were purposely planned and directed by humans, as was the case with all other domestic animals, at least from a very early stage of”
“And that is life.”
“Class is the sure-footedness that comes with having proved you can meet life.”
“Indifference may not wreck a man's life at any one turn, but it will destroy him with a kind of dry-rot in the long run”
“If this doesn't get you exhilarated, then nothing in life will excite you,”
“You really don't want a president who is a football fan. Football combines the worst features of American life. It is violence punctuated by committee meetings.”
“Error is a supposition that pleasure and pain, that intelligence, substance, life, are existent in matter. Error is neither Mind nor one of Mind's faculties. Error is the contradiction of Truth. Error is a belief without understanding. Error is unreal because untrue. It is that which stemma to be and is not. If error were true, its truth would be error, and we should have a self-evident absurdity /namely, erroneous truth. Thus we should continue to lose the standard of Truth.”
“The surrender of life is nothing to sinking down into acknowledgment of inferiority.”
“Woman's first duty in life is to her dressmaker. What the second duty is no one has yet discovered.”
“A judgment about life has no meaning except the truth of the one who speaks last, and the mind is at ease only at the moment when everyone is shouting at once and no one can hear a thing.”
“Eroticism is assenting to life even in death.”
“A man's life is interesting primarily when he has failed -- I well know. For it's a sign that he tried to surpass himself.”
“Political life at Washington is like political life in a suburban vestry.”
“Life! Life! Don't let us go to life for our fulfillment or our experience. It is a thing narrowed by circumstances, incoherent in its utterance, and without that fine correspondence of form and spirit which is the only thing that can satisfy the artistic”
“There'll come a time when all of us must leave here, then nothing sister Mary can do Will keep me here with you. As nothing in this life that I've been trying could equal or surpass the art of dying. Do you believe me?”
“Let us be such as help the life of the future”
“Become an internationalist and learn to respect all life. Make war on machines. And in particular the sterile machines of corporate death and the robots that guard them.”
“Life is half spent before we know what it is.”
“Fat Charlie the archangel files for divorce, he says, well this will eat up a year of my life, and there's all that weight to be lost.”
“The first kiss I had was the most disgusting thing in my life. The girl injected about a pound of saliva, into my mouth, and when I walked away I had to spit it all out.”
“Publicity is the life of this culture - in so far as without publicity capitalism could not survive - and at the same time publicity is its dream.”
“Each person designs his own life, freedom gives him the power to carry out his own designs, and power gives the freedom to interfere with the designs of others.”
“There are amazingly wonderful people in all walks of life; some familiar to us and others not. Stretch yourself and really get to know people. People are in many ways one of our greatest treasures.”
“The hallway of every man's life is paced with pictures; pictures gay and pictures gloomy, all useful, for if we be wise, we can learn from them a richer and braver way to live.”
“Become a champion in life,
 By conquering the enemy within.”
“Organic life beneath the shoreless waves
Was born and nurs'd in ocean's pearly caves;
First forms minute, unseen by spheric glass,
Move on the mud, or pierce the watery mass;
These, as successive generations bloom,
New powers acquire and larger limbs assume;
Whence countless groups of vegetation spring,
And breathing realms of fin and feet and wing.”
“
 The key to a good life is to keep it simple,
 yet creating simplicity is such a complex issue.”
“The Nightmare Life-in-Death was she, / Who thicks man's blood with cold.”
“Something that has always puzzled me all my life is why, when I am in special need of help, the good deed is usually done by somebody on whom I have no claim.”
“You can't ignore what some bands have done. I know that from my own experience, from the way my life was changed by "Fuck Armageddon, This is Hell" by Bad Religion. I know our record will be in a bin next to Lionel Richie -- but so are John Coltrane, KRS-1, and Public Enemy.”
“If today I had a young mind to direct, to start on the journey of life, and I was faced with the duty of choosing between the natural way of my forefathers and that of the... present way of civilization, I would, for its welfare, unhesitatingly set that child's feet in the path of my forefathers. I would raise him to be an Indian!”
“The stage was our school, our home, our life.”
“Many a happiness in life, as many a disaster, can be due to chance, but the peace within us can never be governed by chance.”
“You are embarking on the greatest adventure of your life -- to improve your self-image, to create more meaning in your life and in the lives of others. This is your responsibility. Accept it, now!”
“Your most important sale in life is to sell yourself to yourself.”
“May we agree that private life is irrelevant? Multiple, mixed, ambiguous at best -- out of it we try to fashion the crystal clear, the singular, the absolute, and that is what is relevant; that is what matters.”
“My school days were the happiest days of my life; which should give you some indication of the misery I've endured over the past twenty-five years.”
“People are more laid back and live life a little slower in Winchester. In New York (and now Los Angeles), everything is bam, bam, bam - you have to go fast and move.”
“People before the public live an imagined life in the thought of others, and flourish or feel faint as their self outside themselves grows bright or dwindles in that mirror.”
“Success is a process, a quality of mind and way of being, an outgoing affirmation of life.”
“Usually the nonsense liberals spout is kind of cute, but in wartime their instinctive idiocy is life-threatening.”
“If the only prayer you ever say in your entire life is 'thank you', it will be enough.”
“Is it worthwhile that we jostle a brother, Bearing his load on the rough road of life? Is it worthwhile that we jeer at each other, In blackness of heart - that we war to the knife? God pity us all in our pitiful strife”
“Living, just by itself / what a dirge that is! Life is a classroom and Boredom's the usher, there all the time to spy on you; whatever happens, you've got to look as if you were awfully busy all the time doing something that's terribly exciting /or he'll come along and nibble your brain.”
“The art of life is to know how to enjoy a little and to endure very much.”
“I think I'm more grounded, you know, and I know what I want out of life and I'm, you know, my morals are really, you know, strong and I have major beliefs about certain things and I think that has helped me, you know, from being, you know, coming from a really small town.”
“A Work of Art
... is not a living thing ...
that walks or runs.
But the making of a life.
That which gives you a reaction.
To some it is the wonder of Man's Fingers.
To some it is the wonder of the Mind.
To some it is the wonder of Technique.
And to some it is how Real it is.
To some, how Transcendent it is.
Like the 5th Symphony 
it presents itself with a feeling 
that you know it, if you have heard it once.
And you look for it,
and though you know it you must hear it again.
Though you know it you must see it again.
Truly a work of Art is one that tells us, 
that Nature cannot make what man can make.”
“I went to a psychoanalyst. He explained things about my love life that I found very impressive... almost scary. He said I had a problem with closeness and intimacy... that I was afraid of letting myself fall for someone and of being hurt.”
“I think that at some point in your life you realize you don't have to worry if you do everything you're supposed to do right. Or if not right, if you do it the best you can... what can worry do for you? You are already doing the best you can.”
“One can't relive one's life. Forgiveness is not what's difficult; one's always too ready to forgive. And it does no good, that's obvious.”
“This strange disease of modern life, with its sick hurry, its divided aims.”
“The whole business of your life overwhelms you when you live alone. One's stupefied by it. To get rid of it you try to daub some of it off on to people who come to see you, and they hate that. To be alone trains one for death.”
“I stumbled on this little scene. And little by little, that scene took over my life, ... You could make a living being a blues musician. There were a lot of clubs where you could play this type of music every night. And a lot of roots rock clubs, and bands like the Holmes Brothers, Chris Whitley and Blues Traveler playing opposite sides of the street corner. And a lot of camaraderie. Nobody was thinking of record deals, so there wasn't any feeling of competition.”
“Our life is a long and arduous quest after Truth and the soul requires inward restfulness to attain its full height.”
“Was there ever in anyone's life span a point free in time, devoid of memory, a night when choice was any more than the sum of all the choices gone before?”
“At some point, you have to make a decision. Boundaries don't keep other people out. They fence you in. Life is messy. That's how we're made. So, you can waste your lives drawing lines. Or you can live your life crossing them. But there are some lines... that are way too dangerous to cross.”
“The true purpose of pain in one's life is to grow strong--in faith, spirit, and emotions.”
“All my fans tell me what a glamorous life I have, but I tell them how hard I work and how many nights I spend alone with my dogs, eating chicken pot pie in my bedroom.”
“I've never seen a man in my life I wanted to marry. And I'm going to be blunt and plain: if one ever looks at me like that, I'm going to kill him and tell God he died.”
“. . . one of the goals of life is to try and be in touch with one's most personal themes -- the values, ideas, styles, colors that are the touchstones of one's own individual life, its real texture and substance.”
“You utter a vow or forge a signature and you may find yourself bound for life to a monastery, a woman or prison”
“[About Susan Sontag] Her quest for meaning, for significance was endless. She described life more as a war than an adventure. Susan thrived best in the presence of an adversary. ... You learned that you were not her adversary if she'd chosen you as a friend. She taught me as a friend the strength of dealing with adversity. Her last adversary was the struggle with death itself.”
“For any culture which is primarily concerned with meaning, the study of death - the only certainty that life holds for us - must be central, for an understanding of death is the key to liberation in life.”
“The guiding motto in the life of every natural philosopher should be, Seek simplicity and distrust it”
“What is art but life upon the larger scale, the higher. When, graduating up in a spiral line of still expanding and ascending gyres, it pushes toward the intense significance of all things, hungry for the infinite?”
“The experience of democracy is like the experience of life itself-always changing, infinite in its variety, sometimes turbulent and all the more valuable for having been tested by adversity.”
“I must say that the biggest lesson you can learn in life, or teach your children, is that life is not castles in the skies, happily ever after. The biggest lesson we have to give our children is truth. We're all built with illusions. And they break.”
“And Summers and Winters scattered like splinters And four or five years slipped away”
“Some of it's magic, some of it's tragic, but I had a good life all the way.”
“Life lived amidst tension and busyness needs leisure. Leisure that recreates and renews. Leisure should be a time to think new thoughts, not ponder old ills.”
“Play keeps us vital and alive. It gives us an enthusiasm for life that is irreplaceable. Without it, life doesn’t taste good.”
“Once you're dead you're made for life.”
“Dying is an integral part of life, as natural and predictable as being born. But whereas birth is cause for celebration, death has become a dreaded and unspeakable issue to be avoided by every means possible in our modern society. Perhaps it is that”
“one of the fortuitous events, one of the great pieces of luck in my life.”
“While we are postponing life speeds up.”
“Life has got a habit of not standing hitched. You got to ride it like you find it. You got to change with it. If a day goes by that don't change some of your old notions for new ones, that is just about like trying to milk a dead cow.”
“I felt in my life very suffocated and smothered by my circumstance. Your life becomes what you believe. I was living in a house with my mom and my younger brother and we were all sharing rent and wasn't really making rent. Didn't get to eat, I scrape”
“I love life and I love that about people... I adore the human experience, I really adore the ... I love the contradictions of people... I don't mind being sexy and girlish and womanly, and all those things at the same time... smart and very”
“I'm very big in Australia, New Zealand, Britain, Canada and America. It's nice. I have a lovely life, and actually it pays better than the movies. Well, it doesn't pay better than Tom Cruise in the movies. But it pays better than I get. I get bus fare compared to these guys.”
“And my goal in life is to give to the world what I was lucky to receive: the ecstasy of divine union through my music and my dance.”
“I had no idea of the enormous and unquestionably helpful part that humbug plays in the social life of great peoples dwelling in a state of democratic freedom.”
“The game is my wife. It demands loyalty and responsibility, and it gives me back fulfillment and peace.”
“All that is really necessary for survival of the fittest, it seems, is an interest in life, good, bad or peculiar.”
“One should not confuse the craving for life with endorsement of it.”
“It's strange that the newspapers don't see a connection between their false revelations about my private life and my need for seclusion and security.”
“The lesson I learned at that life marker was, love what you do, or don't do it.”
“Normal life cannot sustain revolutionary attitudes for long.”
“If we can say with Seneca, 'This life is only a prelude to eternity,' then we need not worry so much over the fittings and furnishings of this ante-room; and more than that, it will give dignity and purpose to the fleeting days to know they are linke”
“When I contemplate the accumulation of guilt and remorse which, like a garbage-can, I carry through life, and which is fed not only by the lightest action but by the most harmless pleasure, I feel Man to be of all living things the most biologically incompetent and ill-organized. Why has he acquired a seventy years life-span only to poison it incurably by the mere being of himself? Why has he thrown Conscience, like a dead rat, to putrefy in the well?”
“One can never pay in gratitude: one can only pay 'in kind' somewhere else in life.”
“Public life is regarded as the crown of a career, and to young men it is the worthiest ambition. Politics is still the greatest and the most honorable adventure.”
“I was watching an HBO special the other night on real-life maximum-security-prison guys. I glanced up, and my poster was in quite a few cells. I was screaming 'Oh, no!'”
“In the long run, it is not the years in your life, but the life in your years that counts”
“If winter is slumber and spring is birth, and summer is life, then autumn rounds out to be reflection. It's a time of year when the leaves are down and the harvest is in and the perennials are gone. Mother Earth just closed up the drapes on another year and it's time to reflect on what's come before.”
“When I sit back and think a little more rationally, I realize my life is half, so I must learn to do things halfway. I just have to learn to try to be good at being a half a person ... and get on with my life.”
“Although we will both die, and life is utterly meaningless, my time is vastly more important than yours.”
“I have sacrificed everything in my life that I consider precious in order to advance the political career of my husband”
“Water is the abject necessity for any kind of life to exist. ”
“What is the meaning of human life, or of organic life altogether? To answer this question at all implies a religion. Is there any sense then, you ask, in putting it? I answer, the man who regards his own life and that of his fellow creatures as meaningless is not merely unfortunate but almost disqualified for life. The World as I See It, 1934”
“A shady business never yields a sunny life”
“A great secret of success is to go through life as a man who never gets used up.”
“A finely tempered nature longs to escape from the personal life into the world of objective perception and thought.”
“Our main motivation for living is our will to find meaning in life.”
“DIARY, n. A daily record of that part of one's life, which he can relate to himself without blushing.
Hearst kept a diary wherein were writ All that he had of wisdom and of wit. So the Recording Angel, when Hearst died, Erased all entries of his own and cried:
"I'll judge you by your diary." Said Hearst:
"Thank you; 'twill show you I am Saint the First" -- Straightway producing, jubilant and proud, That record from a pocket in his shroud. The Angel slowly turned the pages o'er, Each stupid line of which he knew before, Glooming and gleaming as by turns he hit On Shallow sentiment and stolen wit; Then gravely closed the book and gave it back.
"My friend, you've wandered from your proper track: You'd never be content this side the tomb -- For big ideas Heaven has little room, And Hell's no latitude for making mirth," He said, and kicked the fellow back to earth. --"The Mad Philosopher"”
“The bed comprehends our whole life, for we were born in it, we live in it, and we shall die in it”
“I declare before you all that my whole life, whether it be long or short, shall be devoted to your service and the service of our great imperial family to which we all belong.”
“I live my life a quarter mile at a time.For those ten seconds or least I'm free nothing else matter”
“It was one of the deadliest and heaviest feelings of my life to feel that I was no longer a boy. From that moment I began to grow old in my own esteem -and in my esteem age is not estimable.”
“Life in a box is better than no life at all ... I expect.”
“There are two ways to slice easily thorugh life; to believe everythingor to doubt everything. Both ways save us from thinking.”
“The actuality of thought is life”
“The state exists for the sake of a good life, and not for the sake of life only”
“A lot of my work goes to the center of where we belong -- if there is any root to life -- because nowadays the family is broken up, and people don't live in the same place for very long”
“The knife of corruption endangered the life of New York City. The scalpel of the law is making us well again.”
“Life is a succession of moments, To live each one is to succeed.”
“The last book I read was the book I've been rereading most of my life, The Fountainhead.”
“There is a time of life somewhere between the sullen fugues of adolescence and the retrenchments of middle age when human nature becomes so absolutely absorbing one wants to be in the city constantly, even at the height of summer.”
“Before you go alter body, do some research and find out how many women have major life-threatening complications from nose jobs. Ask about how many nose jobs gone terribly wrong, and if you thought your face was wrong before, look what happens after. The more we start augmenting our bodies, the more and more we start to look alike, then nobody is special anymore.”
“The theater, bringing impersonal masks to life, is only for those who are virile enough to create new life: either as a conflict of passions subtler than those we already know, or as a complete new character.”
“Of all the things I've done in life, directing a motion picture is the most beautiful. It's the most exciting and the nearest that an interpretive craftsman, such as an actor can possibly get to being a creator.”
“Our individual life is brief, and perhaps the whole life of mankind will be brief if measured in astronomical scale”
“The nation has lost a committed civil and human rights activist whose life and contributions have made a significant difference.”
“My work is like a diary. To understand it, you have to see how it mirrors life.”
“Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life: and I will dwell in the house of the LORD for ever (Psalms 23:6).”
“And if any mischief follow, then thou shalt give life for life, Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, Burning for burning, wound for wound, stripe for stripe”
“Envy and wrath shorten the life”
“It was one of those perfect English autumnal days which occur more frequently in memory than in life.”
“And, behold, a certain lawyer stood up, and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? / He said unto him, What is written in the law? how readest thou? / And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbour as thyself.”
“Really, life is complicated enough without having a bunch of Senators deciding what we should do in the privacy of our own homes.”
“Any child born into the hugely consumptionist way of life so common in the industrial world will have an impact that is, on average, many times more destructive than that of a child born in the developing world”
“I began to ration my writing, for fear I would dream through life as my father had done. I was afraid I had inherited a poisoned gene from him, a vocation without a gift.”
“Luck is everything... My good luck in life was to be a really frightened person. I'm fortunate to be a coward, to have a low threshold of fear, because a hero couldn't make a good suspense film.”
“Other people's babies - / That's my life! / Mother to dozens, / And nobody's wife.”
“Everything you want in life has a price connected to it. There's a price to pay if you want to make things better, a price to pay just for leaving things as they are, a price for everything.”
“Nixon was the most dishonest individual I have ever met in my life. He lied to his wife, his family, his friends, his colleagues in the Congress, lifetime members of his own political party, the American people and the world.”
“However well organized the foundations of life may be, life must always be full of risks”
“This agreement will allow the delivery of life-saving medicines to people who desperately need them. It represents a big breakthrough in our efforts to begin treatment programs in places where, until now, there has been virtually no medicine, and therefore no hope.”
“They say Football's a matter of life and death - but it's more important than that”
“Why isn't my life like a situation comedy? Why don't I have a bunch of friends with nothing better to do but drop by and instigate wacky adventures? Why aren't my conversations peppered with spontaneous witticisms? Why don't my friends demonstrate heartfelt concern for my well being when I have problems? ...I gotta get my life some writers.”
“A box of new crayons! Now they're all pointy, lined up in order, bright and perfect. Soon they'll be a bunch of ground down, rounded, indistinguishable stumps, missing their wrappers and smudged with other colors. Sometimes life seems unbearably tragic.”
“I've come to realize that life is not a musical comedy, it's a Greek tragedy.”
“What you say of the pride of giving life to an immortal soul is very fine dear, but I own I cannot enter into that: I think much more of our being like a cow or a dog at such moments: when our poor nature becomes so very animal and unecstatic”
“Who the cap fits, let them wear it. Your worst enemy can be your best friend; your best friend, your worst enemy.”
“I don't really mind what people say about my love life or anything like that, but the one thing is that, yes, I do sing and write all my own music. That is something that I hold really dear. And yeah, I made a fool of myself in front of the world, but it was also great to pick myself back up and go on tour.”
“If you take the game of life seriously, if you take your nervous system seriously, if you take your sense organs seriously, if you take the energy process seriously, you must turn on, tune in, and drop out”
“The universe is asymmetric and I am persuaded that life, as it is known to us, is a direct result of the asymmetry of the universe or of its indirect consequences. The universe is asymmetric.”
“The measure of the creator is the amount of life he puts into his work”
“Be not afraid of life. Believe that life is worth living, and your belief will help create the fact.”
“Tips for a long life
Keep sweet, keep friendly, keep loving, if ye would keep young”
“The woman who fasts and observes religious vows without the permission of her husband shortens his life, and goes to hell.”
“The most common trait of all primitive peoples is a reverence for the life-giving earth, and the Native American shared this elemental ethic: The land was alive to his loving touch, and he, its son, was brother to all creatures.”
“Life seems to be a never-ending series of survivals, doesn't it?”
“There are two sighs of relief every night in the life of an opera manager. The first comes when the curtain goes up The second sigh of relief comes when the final curtain goes down without any disaster, and one realizes, gratefully, that the miracle has happened again.”
“Your home is regarded as a model home, your life as a model life. But all this splendor, and you along with it... it's just as though it were built upon a shifting quagmire. A moment may come, a word can be spoken, and both you and all this splendor will collapse.”
“The bigger the real-life problems, the greater the tendency for the discipline to retreat into a reassuring fantasy-land of abstract theory and technical manipulation.”
“I'm giving you my life to prove to myself I can, I really can love somebody.”
“After you find out all the things that can go wrong, your life becomes less about living and more about waiting.”
“The safest course is to do nothing against one's conscience. With this secret, we can enjoy life and have no fear from death.”
“I detest what you write, but I would give my life to make it possible for you to continue to write”
“To offer the complexities of life as an excuse for not addressing oneself to the simpler, more manageable (trivial) aspects of daily existence is a perversity often indulged in by artists, husbands, intellectuals -- and critics of the Women's Movement.”
“The life history of the individual is first and foremost an accommodation to the patterns and standards traditionally handed down in his community.”
“Even in America, the Indian summer of life should be a little sunny and a little sad, like the season, and infinite in wealth and depth of tone - but never hustled”
“Life yields only to the conqueror. Never accept what can be gained by giving in. You will be living off stolen goods, and your muscles will atrophy.”
“The most important thing in life is not simply to capitalize on your gains. Any fool can do that. The important thing is to profit from your losses. That requires intelligence, and makes the difference between a man of sense and a fool.”
“The loss of life will be irreplaceable.”
“My life has been nothing but a failure”
“What's really important in life? Sitting on a beach? Looking at television eight hours a day? I think we have to appreciate that we're alive for only a limited period of time, and we'll spend most of our lives working. That being the case, I beli”
“Art is the most beautiful deception of all. And although people try to incorporate the everyday events of life in it, we must hope that it will remain a deception lest it become a utilitarian thing, sad as a factory.”
“The life so short, the craft so long to learn.”
“Rivalry is the life of trade, and the death of the trader”
“All of life is a constant education.”
“The supreme happiness of life is the conviction that we are loved”
“Excellence encourages one about life generally; it shows the spiritual wealth of the world.”
“The death penalty is becoming a way of life in this country.”
“You become smaller and smaller, you small people! You are fading away, you lovers of the easy life! You are being destroyed . . . your soil is too protective, too yielding.”
“The lie is a condition of life.”
“The man who has renounced war has renounced a grand life.”
“No matter how noble the objective of a government, if it blurs decency and kindness, cheapens human life, and breeds ill will and suspicion - it is an evil government”
“The professors laugh at themselves, they laugh at life; they long ago abjured the bitch-goddess Success, and the best of them will fight for his scholastic ideals with a courage and persistence that would shame a soldier. The professor is not afraid of words like truth; in fact he is not afraid of words at all.”
“In the arts of life man invents nothing; but in the arts of death he outdoes Nature herself, and produces by chemistry and machinery all the slaughter of plague, pestilence, and famine”
“There are some experiences in life which should not be demanded twice from any man, and one of them is listening to the Brahms Requiem.”
“It is long and hard and painful to create life: it is short and easy to steal the life others have made”
“Crude classifications and false generalizations are the curse of organized life.”
“Of all the damnable waste of human life that ever was invented, clerking is the very worst”
“The theatre, for all its artifices, depicts life in a sense more truly than history, because the medium has a kindred movement to that of real life, though an artificial setting and form.”
“A supreme love, a motive that gives a sublime rhythm to a woman's life, and exalts habit into partnership with the soul's highest needs, is not to be had where and how she wills.”
“Essentially, I'm a small-part actor who's been lucky enough to play leading roles for most of his life”
“Life flows on within you and without you.”
“Literature is a defense against the attacks of life. It says to life: "You can't deceive me. I know your habits, foresee and enjoy watching all your reactions, and steal your secret by involving you in cunning obstructions that halt your normal flow."”
“Human life is basically a comedy. Even its tragedies often seem comic to the spectator, and not infrequently they actually seem to have comic touches to the victim. Happiness probably consists largely in the capacity to detect and relish them.”
“Thus we see that the all important thing is not killing or giving life, drinking or not drinking, living in the town or the country, being unlucky or lucky, winning or losing. It is how we win, how we lose, how we live or die, finally, how we choose.”
“Remembering that I'll be dead soon is the most important tool I've ever encountered to help me make the big choices in life. Because almost everything — all external expectations, all pride, all fear of embarrassment or failure - these things just fall away in the face of death, leaving only what is truly important. There is no reason not to follow your heart.”
“We must all suffer one of two things: the pain of discipline or the pain of regret or disappointment.”
“Work is the meat of life, pleasure the dessert”
“Life is like a landscape. You live in the midst of it but can describe it only from the vantage point of distance.”
“When it comes to my life I have always been an optimist. My door is always open, and My pants are always down.”
“Sometimes we need to stop analyzing the past, stop planning the future, stop figuring out precisely how we feel, stop deciding exactly what we want, and just see what happens.”
“The object of education is to give man the unity of truth. Formerly, when life was simple, all the different elements of man were in complete harmony. But when there came the separation of the intellect from the spiritual and the physical, the school”
“For the current of our spiritual life creeds, rituals and channels that may thwart or help, according to their fixity or openness. When a symbol or spiritual idea becomes rigidly elaborate in its construction, it supplants the idea which it should support.”
“Keep your face always toward the sunshine - and shadows will fall behind you.”
“Your life is yours and yours alone. Rise up and live it.”
“Anyone who has never made a mistake has never tried anything new.”
“A happy childhood has spoiled many a promising life.”
“Each person's life is lived as a series of conversations.”
“You have to make a decision, what you want to do in life, ... Your deal can be, you can leave tomorrow. Soon as you leave, you will be forgotten.”
“Most powerful... ONE word: CONGRATULATIONS. TWO words: THANK YOU. THREE words: I LOVE YOU.”
“The day you will stop having fun, you will start growing old.”
“Too many people today know the price of everything and the value of nothing.”
“I have a certain curiosity for life that drives me and propels me forward.”
“You will hear the birds' songs, only when you listen to it.You will learn everything, only when you want to learn it.You will find anything, only when you want to search for it.You will see the beauty, only when you want to see it.You will feel the life, only when you want to live.But,You will understand true love,only when you are helpless.”
“Happiness always looks small while you hold it in your hands, but let it go, and you learn at once how big and precious it is.”
“You have brains in your head. You have feet in your shoes. You can steer yourself in any direction you choose. You're on your own.
And you know what you know. You are the guy who'll decide where to go.”
“At some point in my life I hope my mother and I will get together...unfortunately that got dragged out into the public eye. This is a wound that needs to heal slowly and time does that. And we love each other.”
“Wherever you go, go with all your heart.”
“Things don't go wrong and break your heart so you can become bitter and give up. They happen to break you down and build you up so you can be all that you were intended to be.”
“We cannot really love anyone with with whom we never laugh”
“The best remedy for those who are afraid, lonely or unhappy is to go outside, somewhere where they can be quiet, alone with the heavens, nature and God. Because only then does one feel that all is as it should be.”
“The pessimist complains about the wind; the optimist expects it to change; the realist adjusts the sails.”
“Never wish life were easier, wish that you were better.”
“If you don't want to start changing yourself, don't wonder why you're miserable”
“Crying,feels like the answer,but deep down,all it does is make your heart die,and everything turns to complete chaos.”
“Relationship is more than love, but it's all about love.”
“It is the mind which creates the world around us, and even though we stand side by side in the same meadow, my eyes will never see what is beheld by yours, my heart will never stir to the emotions with which yours is touched.”
“Some days there won't be a song in your heart. Sing anyway.”
“There are nine requisites for contented living: HEALTH enough to make work a pleasure; WEALTH enough to support your needs; STRENGTH enough to battle with difficulties and forsake them; GRACE enough to confess your sins and overcome them; PATIENCE enough to toil until some good is accomplished; CHARITY enough to see some good in your neighbor; LOVE enough to move you to be useful and helpful to others; FAITH enough to make real the things of God; HOPE enough to remove all anxious fears concerning the future.”
“Far better is it to dare mighty things, to win glorious triumphs, even though checked by failure...than to rank with those poor spirits who neither enjoy much nor suffer much, because they live in a gray twilight that knows not victory nor defeat.”
“I always felt guilty. My whole life.”
“If you wouldst live long, live well; for folly and wickedness shorten life”
“Hurried and worried until we're buried, and there's no curtain call, Lifes a very funny proposition after all”
“Death is Nature's expert advice to get plenty of Life.”
“You've got to find what you love.Your work is going to fill a large part of your life, and the only way to be truly satisfied is to do what you believe is great work. And the only way to do great work is to love what you do. If you haven’t found it yet, keep looking. And don’t settle.”
“Sometimes the greatest messages come out of the greatest messes.”
“Government and cooperation are in all things the laws of life. Anarchy and competition, the laws of death.”
“Today is not merely a holiday, but a true holy day which honors the life and legacy of Martin Luther King, Junior in the best possible way.”
“I am good, but not an angel. I do sin, but I am not the devil. I am pretty, but not beautiful. I have friends, but I am not the peacemaker. I am just a small girl in a big world trying to find someone to love.”
“Use your eyes to hear the words I love you”
“You will know what to live for when you determine what you're willing to die for.”
“Life is a geometric progression where 'a' is you and 'r' is shit”
“When it comes down to it, I let them think what they want. If they care enough to bother with what I do, then I'm already better than them anyways.”
“Love is like a friendship caught on fire. In the beginning a flame, very pretty, often hot and fierce, but still only light and flickering. As love grows older, our hearts mature and our love becomes as coals, deep-burning and unquenchable.”
“Life is what happens while you are busy making other plans.”
“By humility and the fear of the Lord are riches, and honour, and life (Proverbs 22:4).”
“You have succeeded in life when all you really want is only what you really need.”
“As you grow older, you'll see white men cheat black men every day of your life, but let me tell you something and don't you forget it - whenever a white man does that to a black man, no matter who he is, how rich he is, or how fine a family he comes from, he is trash.”
“Continue searching for perfection and you will surely miss out on the best life has to offer.”
“We must remember that Life comes from Love.... Because God's Love.. we still live in this world.... Because Our Parents's Love we live in this world.. and because another people's Love.. we had accepted to live in this world with them”
“Life is colored by the people we meet... but defined by the ones we love.”
“Love iz like the meazles; we kant have it bad but onst, and the later in life we have it the tuffer it goes with us”
“They invented hugs to let people know you love them without saying anything.”
“There are men here and there to whom the whole of life is like an after-dinner hour with a cigar; easy, pleasant, empty, perhaps enlivened by some fable of strife to be forgotten -- before the end is told -- even if there happens to be any end to it.”
“Letting go becomes easier, when you see not what you lose, but all that you gain, in creating space for something new.”
“When you rise in the morning, give thanks for the light, for your life, for your strength. Give thanks for your food and for the joy of living. If you see no reason to give thanks, the fault lies in yourself.”
“I'm so tired, but I can't sleep...standing on the edge of something much too deep...funny how I feel so much but cannot say a word...we are screaming inside, oh, but we can't be heard...so afraid to love you, more afraid to lose...clinging to a past”
“We die in the body, if we’re not alive in the heart.”
“Do not learn more than you absolutely need to get through life”
“We must accept finite disappointment, but never lose infinite hope.”
“All my life I had been looking for something, and everywhere I looked someone tried to tell me what it was. I accepted thier answers too, though they were often in contradiction and even self-contradictory. I was naive. I as looking for myself and asking everyone except myself questions which I, and only I could answer. It took me a while and much painful boomeranging of my expectations to achieve a realization everyone else appears to have been born with: That I am nobody but myself!”
“The life of man is the true romance, which when it is valiantly conduced, will yield the imagination a higher joy than any fiction.”
“How does life become totally painful? By total retreat. Total noninspection becomes total pain.
[…]
But existence is basically composed of a very few truths onto which have hung a great many artificialities and which man has adorned with enormous numbers of lies. And man is prisoner of his own shadows. 
Now one of the things you can do with man is to get him to look up and find out that he can look through the shadows and look at the shadows and find out what they are.”
“You give but little when you give of your possessions. It is when you give of yourself that you truly give.”
“The privacy of public office, the publicity of private life”
“A day for toil, an hour for sport, but for a friend is life too short.”
“He alone is wise who can accommodate himself to all contingencies of life; but the fool contends, and struggling, like a swimmer, against the stream.”
“This body, full of faults, Has yet one great quality: Whatever it encounters in this temporal life Depends upon one's actions.”
“Your living is determined not so much by what life brings to you as by the attitude you bring to life; not so much by what happens to you as by the way your mind looks at what happens.”
“The organization controlling the material equipment of our everyday life is such that what in itself would enable us to construct it richly plunges us instead into a poverty of abundance, making alienation all the more intolerable as each convenience promises liberation and turns out to be only one more burden. We are condemned to slavery to the means of liberation.”
“When I was doing 'This Boy's Life' I wanted to be as old as Robert DeNiro and as experienced as him and have the same respect as he did in that movie.”
“You are the only real obstacle in your path to a fulfilling life.”
“The true sign of intelligence is not knowledge but imagination.”
“What do you want a meaning for? Life is a desire, not a meaning.”
“We don't see things as they are, we see them as we are.”
“When one subtracts from life infancy (which is vegetation), sleep, eating and swilling, buttoning and unbuttoning - how much remains of downright existence? The summer of a dormouse.”
“The poor dog, in life the firmest friend, The first to welcome, foremost to defend, Whose honest heart is still the master's own, Who labours, fights, lives, breathes for him alone, Unhonour'd falls, unnoticed all his worth, Denied in heaven the soul he held on earth, While man, vain insect hopes to be forgiven, And claims himself a sole exclusive heaven.”
“Life Is So Damn Unpredictable-
One Moment You Think All Your Dreams Are Coming True!
&
The Very Next Moment You Find That You Were Actually Dreaming..!!
Sadly True!”
“He who is engrossed in family life will never acquire knowledge; there can be no mercy in the eater of flesh; the greedy man will not be truthful; and purity will not be found in a woman a hunter.”
“The essence of life is statistical improbability on a colossal scale”
“I came from the air. I came from the moon. I just landed. Traveling, it's a constant in my life. Sometimes I feel like I'm naturally high because of this lifestyle. Sometimes I really feel like I'm the air or on the moon, and that's that. Of course, I originally came from China.”
“Life goes on within you and without you”
“When I eat with my friends, it is a moment of real pleasure, when I really enjoy my life.”
“You can turn off the sun, but I'm still gonna shine.”
“Economy, prudence, and a simple life are the sure masters of need, and will often accomplish that which, their opposites, with a fortune at hand, will fail to do.”
“Everything that possesses life dies if it has to live in uncongenial surroundings”
“This is one of the most competitive businesses there is . . . It's my life. It's my blood. It's how I'm measured.”
“My life needs editing.”
“An attitude to life which seeks fulfillment in the single-minded pursuit of wealth / in short, materialism / does not fit into this world, because it contains within itself no limiting principle, while the environment in which it is placed is strictly limited.”
“I am interested in art as a means of living a life; not as a means of making a living.”
“Old age has the last word: the purely naturalistic look at life, however enthusiastically it may begin, is sure to end in sadness. . . . This sadness lies at the heart of every merely positivistic, agnostic, or naturalistic scheme of philosophy.”
“I am Classic Rock Revisited. I revisit it every waking moment of my life because it has the spirit and the attitude and the fire and the middle finger. I am Rosa Parks with a Gibson guitar.”
“Every day of my life, I feel fat. It's not correct thinking in the natural, normal human being's way of life.”
“Here is the deepest secret nobody knows.
Here is the root of the root and the bud of the bud
And the sky of the sky of a tree called life;
Which grows higher than soul can hope or mind can hide.
And this is the wonder that's keeping the stars apart.
I carry your heart.
I carry it in my heart.”
“The examined life is no picnic”
“Life is tons of discipline. Your first discipline is your vocabulary; then your grammar and your punctuation Then, in your exuberance and bounding energy you say you're going to add to that. Then you add rhyme and meter. And your delight is in that power.”
“If you can dream it, then you can achieve it. You will get all you want in life if you help enough other people get what they want.”
“Money isn't the most important thing in life, but it's reasonably close to oxygen on the "gotta have it" scale.”
“We owe to the Middle Ages the two worst inventions of humanity - romantic love and gunpowder.”
“Without faith, love and a good sense of humor, you don't get through much in this life,”
“Oh, my goodness I never thought I'd be here in my whole life growing up in Tennessee.”
“Earth, thou great footstool of our God, who reigns on high; thou fruitful source of all our raiment, life, and food; our house, our parent, and our nurse”
“Oh my goodness, I never thought I'd ever be here in my whole life. I'm just trying to matter and live a good life, and doing work that means something.”
“I wish to preach not the doctrine of ignoble ease, but the doctrine of strenuous life”
“My greatest gift that I have in life is basketball.”
“A life of frustration is inevitable for any coach whose main enjoyment is winning.”
“He who joyfully marches to music in rank and file has already earned my contempt. He has been given a large brain by mistake, since for him the spinal cord would surely suffice.”
“The way we communicate with others and with ourselves ultimately determines the quality of our lives”
“The quality of American life is an insult to the possibilities of human growth. . . the pollution of American space, with gadgetry and cars and TV and box architecture, brutalizes the senses, making gray neurotics of most of us. . .”
“People living deeply have no fear of death.”
“If one does not know to which port one is sailing, no wind is favorable.”
“Today is a most unusual day, because we have never lived it before; we will never live it again; it is the only day we have.
Today can be a healthy unusual day for you -- and for others -- if you take time to give someone a smile . . . to express a word of kindness . . . to lend a helping hand to someone in need . . . to write a note of gratitude . . . to give a word of encouragement to someone who is temporarily overcome with problems . . . to share a portion of your material possessions with others.”
“Let us rise up and be thankful, for if we didn't learn a lot today, at least we learned a little, and if we didn't learn a little, at least we didn't get sick, and if we got sick, at least we didn't die; so, let us all be thankful.”
“Just as treasures are uncovered from the earth, so virtue appears from good deeds, and wisdom appears from a pure and peaceful mind. To walk safely through the maze of human life, one needs the light of wisdom and the guidance of virtue.”
“You succeed at being a failure when you blame someone else.”
“A man is born alone and dies alone; and he experiences the good and bad consequences of his karma alone; and he goes alone to hell or the Supreme abode.”
“A single conversation across the table with a wise man is better than ten years mere study of books.”
“There's time for a boyfriend in my life. But he would have to be understanding. He would have to understand that often I will be travelling and playing.”
“If people concentrated on the really important things in life, there'd be a shortage of fishing poles.”
“I don't know what better teenage life you could get than going around the world doing what you love to do.”
“In order to understand life it is not only necessary not to be indifferent to men, but not to be indifferent to flocks, to trees. One should be indifferent to nothing.”
“We took risks. We knew we took them. Things have come out against us. We have no cause for complaint.”
“The child learns more of the virtues needed in modern life-of fairness, of justice, of comradeship, of collective interest and action-in a common school than can be taught in the most perfect family circle”
“The golden hours on angel wings Flew o'er me and my Dearie; For dear to me as light and life Was my sweet Highland Mary”
“For thence - a paradox Which comforts while it mocks, - Shall life succeed in that it seems to fail: What I aspired to be, And was not, comforts me: A brute I might have been, but would not sink i' the scale”
“Life is no `brief candle' to me. It is a sort of splendid torch which I've got to hold
up for the moment, and I want to make it burn as brightly as possible before
handing it on to future generations.”
“It takes more distress and poison to kill someone who has peace of mind and loves life.”
“The first half of life is spent in longing for the second - the second half in regretting the first”
“Do not be too timid and squeamish about your actions. All life is an experiment.”
“If money is your hope for independence you will never have it. The only real security that a man will have in this world is a reserve of knowledge, experience, and ability.”
“To live; to love; to learn; and to leave a legacy”
“Everything in excess! To enjoy the flavor of life, take big bites. Moderation is for monks.”
“Knowing others is wisdom; Knowing the self is enlightenment; Mastering others requires force; Mastering the self needs strength”
“I think that's what makes life interesting-the evolution of getting older, and it's kinda fascinating to me, the whole process.”
“It is well to be up before daybreak, for such habits contribute to health, wealth, and wisdom.”
“If you would be loved, love, and be loveable”
“Life is not so bad if you have plenty of luck, a good physique and not too much imagination”
“What we think, we become.”
“Well, it seems to me that the best relationships - the ones that last - are frequently the ones that are rooted in friendship. You know, one day you look at the person and you see something more than you did the night before. Like a switch has been flicked somewhere. And the person who was just a friend is... suddenly the only person you can ever imagine yourself with”
“If your roots are forgotten then your fruits will rotten.”
“A young man's ambition is to get along in the world and make a place for himself-half your life goes that way, till you're 45 or 50. Then, if you're lucky, you make terms with life, you get released.”
“I did not know it then, but Frida had already become the most important fact in my life. And would continue to be, up to the moment she died, 27 years later.”
“Experiencing life through a book can help you learn without all the pain of going through the experiences first hand.”
“People cut themselves off from their ties of the old life when they come to Los Angeles. They are looking for a place where they can be free, where they can do things they couldn't do anywhere else.”
“There is nothing worse than aggressive stupidity.”
“I've kind of always tried to make it secondary to life, you know? The kind of music I make I think is best at barbecues and road trips. It's kind of good soundtrack music,”
“Breathe. Let go. And remind yourself that this very moment is the only one you know you have for sure.”
“The unreal is more powerful than the real, because nothing is as perfect as you can imagine it. because its only intangible ideas, concepts, beliefs, fantasies that last. stone crumbles. wood rots. people, well, they die. but things as fragile as a thought, a dream, a legend, they can go on and on.”
“Don't tell God how big your problem is. Tell your problem how big God is.”
“sometimes, you just have to let people go. No matter how much you don't want to and no matter how much it will hurt you, you will eventually realize it's for the best”
“The need to express oneself in writing springs from a mal-adjustment to life, or from an inner conflict which the adolescent (or the grown man) cannot resolve in action. Those to whom action comes as easily as breathing rarely feel the need to break loose from the real, to rise above, and describe it... I do not mean that it is enough to be maladjusted to become a great writer, but writing is, for some, a method of resolving a conflict, provided they have the necessary talent.”
“Life at best is bittersweet.”
“If everyone really knew what a jerk I am in real life, I wouldn't be so adored in the slightest.”
“Life isn't all beer and skittles”
“Life is not about perfection, it's more about progess.”
“Everything happens to everybody sooner or later if there is time enough.”
“La vida loca, that's my life right now. I'm going through an adrenaline rush that my career is giving me at the moment, and it is pretty intense.”
“Laughter is the closest distance between two people.”
“If the facts don't fit the theory, change the facts.”
“Preaching is to much avail, but practice is far more effective. A godly life is the strongest argument you can offer the skeptic.”
“There's only two people in your life you should lie to...the police and your girlfriend.”
“Life becomes useless and insipid when we have no longer either friends or enemies.”
“Don't let things or people who can never be a part of your future determine how you life your life today.”
“A true friend knows your weaknesses but shows you your strengths; feels your fears but fortifies your faith; sees your anxieties but frees your spirit; recognizes your disabilities but emphasizes your possibilities.”
“You can't get to happily ever after without turning the page.”
“There is a thin line that separates laughter and pain, comedy and tragedy, humor and hurt.”
“Cigarettes and coffee: an alcoholic's best friend!”
“Bigger than life is not difficult for me. I am bigger than life.”
“The world is circular ... everything comes back around to you.”
“One of the largest influences on human beings is the people with whom you spend your time. Find a group of winners; people who celebrate success and will help you to achieve the life you desire.”
“When I was a boy of 14, my father was so ignorant I could hardly stand to have the old man around. But when I got to be 21, I was astonished at how much the old man had learned in seven years.”
“Birth is not only about making babies. Birth is about making mothers ~ strong, competent, capable mothers who trust themselves and know their inner strength.”
“Giving up is a display of immense strength.”
“The world rolls round forever like a mill; it grinds out death and life and good and ill; it has no purpose, heart or mind or will.”
“Yes, but it's my life has been wasted, And I have been the fool, To let this manufacturer use my body for a tool, I can ride home in the evening, Staring at my hands, Swearing by my sorrow that a young girl, Ought to stand a better chance, So may I w”
“For life is but a dream whose shapes return, some frequently, some seldom, some by night and some by day.”
“Men always want to be a woman's first love - women like to be a mans last romance.”
“To grasp the full significance of life is the actor's duty; to interpret it his problem; and to express it his dedication. Being an actor is the loneliest thing in the world. You are all alone with your concentration and imagination, and that's all you have. Being a good actor isn't easy. Being a man is even harder. I want to be both before I'm done.”
“No man should be in public office who can't make more money in private life.”
“He was in love with life as an ant on a summer blade of grass”
“Sanity and happiness are an impossible combination”
“We all suffer from a painful incurable disease...it's called 'memory'.”
“Each one of us is a lonely hunter,but lets not forget that someday,somewhere a feast will be laid for us too....”
“Those who are more adapted to the active life can prepare themselves for contemplation in the practice of the active life, while those who are more adapted to the contemplative life can take upon themselves the works of the active life so as to become yet”
“Adopt the pace of nature; her secret is patience.”
“The noblest pleasure is the joy of understanding.”
“We can search the world over, for peace, for love, and honor. We can look from now to eternity, for all we do not own. We can search until life is ending, then when life is nearly ore. We find we had what we needed, only now, its too hard to bear.”
“Any man who can drive safely while kissing a pretty girl is simply not giving the kiss the attention it deserves.”
“When I first open my eyes upon the morning meadows and look out upon the beautiful world, I thank God I am alive”
“Many that live deserve death. And some that die deserve life. Can you give it to them? Then do not be too eager to deal out death in judgement. For even the very wise cannot see all ends.”
“Nothing is permanent in this wicked world - not even our troubles.”
“The power of accurate observation is commonly called cynicism by those who haven't got it.”
“There is nothing half so sweet in life as love's young dreams”
“Listen to life, and you will hear the voice of life crying, Be!.”
“Lying is an indispensable part of making life tolerable.”
“A little more moderation would be good. Of course, my life hasn't exactly been one of moderation.”
“Intense love does not measure; it just gives”
“There is more hunger in the world for love and appreciation in this world than for bread.”
“Happiness lasts for a moment would just be a memory in few minutes so would sadness...Just as every single object as well as every other feeling in any creature. So why worries, admit what you are given in your birth and live to gain what you need , till your breath leaves you away...”
“Money won't make you happy... but everybody wants to find out for themselves.”
“Throughout life you will meet one person who is unlike any other, you could talk to this person for hours and never get bored, you could tell them things and they wont judge you. This person is your best friend, your soulmate. Don't ever let them go.”
“Business, you know, may bring money, but friendship hardly ever does.”
“It is far easier for a woman to lead a blameless life than it is for a man; all she has to do is to avoid sexual intercourse like the plague.”
“Thence up he flew, and on the Tree of Life,/ The middle tree and highest there that grew, / Sat like a cormorant.”
“I have been through a lot and have suffered a great deal. But I have had lots of happy moments, as well. Every moment one lives is different from the other. The good, the bad, hardship, the joy, the tragedy, love, and happiness are all interwoven into one single, indescribable whole that is called life. You cannot separate the good from the bad. And perhaps there is no need to do so, either.”
“A life in harmony with nature, the love of truth and virtue, will purge the eyes to understanding her text”
“It is a tribute to the peculiar horror of contemporary life that it makes the worst features of earlier times -- the stupefaction of the masses, the obsessed and driven lives of the bourgeoisie -- seem attractive by comparison.”
“Tact is the art of making a point without making an enemy.”
“Show up for your life, because if you don't no one else will.”
“How happy is the sailor's life, from coast to coast to roam; in every port he finds a wife, in every land a home.”
“At last awake / From life, that insane dream we take / For waking now.”
“It is more profitable for your congressman to support the tobacco industry than your life.”
“If you don't expect much you can't be disappointed.”
“Boyfriends have to understand me and my needs. They have to know what I want out of my life and about my strict regime. I go to bed at 10pm and not later. I separate my professional and private lives.”
“If you look for the bad in people expecting to find it, you surely will.”
“In later life, as in earlier, only a few persons influence the formation of our character; the multitude pass us by like a distant army. One friend, one teacher, one beloved, one club, one dining table, one work table are the means by which one's na”
“Every man regards his own life as the New Year's Eve of time.”
“In every living thing there is the desire for love.”
“The only tyrannies from which men, women and children are suffering in real life are the tyrannies of minorities”
“If I were not a physicist, I would probably be a musician. I often think in music. I live my daydreams in music. I see my life in terms of music. ... I get most joy in life out of music.”
“'Three passions, simple but overwhelmingly strong, have governed my life: the longing for love, the search for knowledge, and unbearable pity for the suffering of mankind.”
“A happy person is not a person in a certain set of circumstances, but rather a person with a certain set of attitudes.”
“We can let circumstances rule us, or we can take charge and rule our lives from within.”
“The whole life of an American is passed like a game of chance, a revolutionary crisis, or a battle.”
“The problem with the designated driver program, it's not a desirable job, but if you ever get sucked into doing it, have fun with it. At the end of the night, drop them off at the wrong house.”
“No rules exist, and examples are simply life-savers answering the appeals of rules making vain attempts to exist.”
“When we love anyone with our whole hearts, life begins when we are with that person; it is only in their company that we are really and truly alive.”
“When the music changes, so does the dance”
“I'm in the life-changing business! ... Leadership develops daily, but not in one day.”
“We believe faith and freedom must be our guiding stars, for they show us truth, they make us brave, give us hope, and leave us wiser than we were.”
“I don't want to ever, ever do something in life that isn't fun. Ever.”
“Choose silence of all virtues, for by it you hear other men's imperfections, and conceal your own.”
“Personal relationships are the fertile soil from which all advancement, all success, all achievement in real life grows.”
“But life is sweet, though all that makes it sweet. Lessen like sound of friends departing feet; And death is beautiful as feet of friend. Coming with welcome at our journey's end.”
“The more you praise and celebrate your life, the more there is in life to celebrate.”
“Life is short and if you're looking for extension, you had best do well. 'Cause there's good deeds and then there's good intentions. They are as far apart as Heaven and Hell.”
“My life isn't necessarily more important than anyone else's: I'm just better in talking about it.”
“"Since I'm only 24 years old, guess I have as good an insight into this rising generation as any other young man my age.
And I've discovered that most young men do not stand like ramrods or talk like Demosthenes. Therefore, when I do play a youth, such as in Warner Bros. Rebel Without A Cause, I try to imitate life. The picture deals with the problems of modern youth. It is the romanticized conception of the juvenile that causes much of our trouble with misguided youth nowadays. I think the one thing this picture shows that's new is the psychological disproportion of the kids' demands on the parents. Parents are often at fault, but the kids have some work to do, too. But you can't show some far off idyllic conception of behavior if you want the kids to come and see the picture. You've got to show what it's really like, and try to reach them on their own grounds. You know, a lot of times an older boy, one of the fellows the young ones idolize, can go back to the high school kids and tell them, "Look what happened to me! Why be a punk and get in trouble with the law? Why do these senseless things just for a thrill?" I hope "Rebel Without A Cause" will do something like that. I hope it will remind them that other people have feelings. Perhaps they will say, "What do we need all that for?" If a picture is psychologically motivated, if there is truth in the relationship in it, then I think that picture will do good.”
“When you arise in the morning, think of what a precious privilege it is to be alive - to breathe, to think, to enjoy, to love.”
“All lasting business is built on friendship.”
“Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live (John 11:25).”
“For with thee is the fountain of life: in thy light shall we see light (Psalms 36:9).”
“I am the resurrection, and the life”
“Maturity is achieved when a person accepts life as full of tension.”
“For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord”
“What we do in life, echoes in eternity!”
“Ironically, rural America has become viewed by a growing number of Americans as having a higher quality of life not because of what it has, but rather because of what it does not have!”
“I believe that imagination is stronger than knowledge - myth is more potent than history - dreams are more powerful than facts - hope always triumphs over experience - laughter is the cure for grief - love is stronger than death”
“If you're going to spend seven months of your life - for me seven months, for Roland Emmerich, 3, 4, 5 years of his life - doing something, I think you have to have something to say.”
“Each must in virtue strive for to excel ; That man lives twice that lives the first life well”
“Who made you God to say ill take your life from you”
“It is necessary to try to pass one's self always; this occupation ought to last as long as life.”
“Do not seek the because - in love there is no because, no reason, no explanation, no solutions.”
“May you grow up to be righteous, may you grow up to be true. May you always know the truth and see the lights surrounding you. May you always be courageous, stand upright and be strong. May you stay forever young.”
“Don't worry about a thing, every little thing is gonna be alright”
“This is my simple religion. There is no need for temples; no need for complicated philosophy. Our own brain, our own heart is our temple; the philosophy is kindness.”
“Turns out not where but who you're with that really matters.”
“LOVE Life and LIFE will Love you back”
“The greatest sense of inner peace is not having to prove oneself”
“You have to count on living every single day in a way you believe will make you feel good about your life- so that if it were over tomorrow, you'd be content with yourself”
“We try a new drug, a new combination 
of drugs, and suddenly 
I fall into my life again 
like a vole picked up by a storm 
then dropped three valleys 
and two mountains away from home. 
I can find my way back. I know 
I will recognize the store 
where I used to buy milk and gas. 
I remember the house and barn, 
the rake, the blue cups and plates, 
the Russian novels I loved so much, 
and the black silk nightgown 
that he once thrust 
into the toe of my Christmas stocking.”
“You do not know what life means when all the difficulties are removed! I am simply smothered and sickened with advantages. It is like eating a sweet dessert the first thing in the morning.”
“It is better to conquer yourself than to win a thousand battles. Then the victory is yours. It cannot be taken from you, not by angels or by demons, heaven or hell.”
“Love is like energy. It can never be created nor destroyed...it is just always there. You just have to realize that fact and you have to learn that as soon as you stopped loving him in the way you did that love left to somewhere else. Now all you have to do is find out where that love went. That love went to whoever the next person in your life will be. That next person could be one of your friends or someone you might dislike, you just have to find that out.”
“Born to be wild - live to outgrow it.”
“Fear freezes ones will to grow, the flame of truth is the only thing that will revive this frozen state of being.”
“For every right ACTION, there is equal right OPPORTUNITY”
“By the worldly standards of public life, all scholars in their work are of course oddly virtuous. They do not make wild claims, they do not cheat, they do not try to persuade at any cost, they appeal neither to prejudice nor to authority, they are often frank about their ignorance, their disputes are fairly decorous, they do not confuse what is being argued with race, politics, sex or age, they listen patiently to the young and to the old who both know everything. These are the general virtues of scholarship, and they are peculiarly the virtues of science.”
“Life in part is what you make of it... in parting it is what it makes out of you.”
“All of life is a foreign country.”
“It is told that Buddha, going out to look on life, was greatly daunted by death. "They all eat one another!" he cried, and called it evil. This process I examined, changed the verb, said, "They all feed one another," and called it good.”
“I refuse to allow a disability to determine how I live my life. I don't mean to be reckless, but setting a goal that seems a bit daunting actually is very helpful toward recovery,”
“I live a normal life, I take care of our baby, I cook, and I look forward to the weekend so I can spend some time with my husband. It's the kind of change we all secretly dream of, but which isn't always easy to deal with.”
“What avails love when life is so ephemeral?
What avaiIs a mortal’s love for the immortal?
Love that is snuffed out by death’s passing blast
Love without the pain, the passion that consumes?
A flickering spark I am, aglow for a fleeting glance
Flow vain for a flickering spark to chase an eternal flame!
Grant me the bliss of eternal life, O Lord,
And mine will be the ecstasy of eternal love.
Give me the pleasure of an everlasting pain
An agony that lacerates my soul for ever.”
“It is better to be without a kingdom than to rule over a petty one; better to be without a friend than to befriend a rascal; better to be without a disciple than to have a stupid one; and better to be without a wife than to have a bad one.”
“On life's journey faith is nourishment, virtuous deeds are a shelter, wisdom is the light by day and right mindfulness is the protection by night. If a man lives a pure life, nothing can destroy him.”
“Nothing that is worth doing can be achieved in a lifetime; therefore we must be saved by hope.”
“One of life's gifts is that each of us, no matter how tired and downtrodden, finds reasons for thankfulness: for the crops carried in from the fields and the grapes from the vineyard.”
“I like to see a man proud of the place in which he lives. I like to see a man live so that his place will be proud of him.”
“It's so much easier for me to talk about my life in front of two thousand people than it is one-to-one. I'm a real defensive person, because if you were sensitive in my neighborhood you were something to eat.”
“That song, for me, is about drugs and alcohol and loss and love. It's about being proud of who you are, being proud of your situation and just being stoked that things are always going to get better or always gonna get worse and that's such a great thing. Every day is a new surprise.”
“If they ever do my life story, whoever plays me needs lots of hair color and high heels.”
“The secret of the truly successful, I believe, is that they learned very early in life how not to be busy. They saw through that adage, repeated to me so often in childhood, that anything worth doing is worth doing well.”
“Sometimes the road less traveled is less traveled for a reason”
“Every human is an artist. The dream of your life is to make beautiful art.”
“Above all, love each other deeply, because love covers over a multitude of sins. Offer hospitality to one another without grumbling (1 Peter 4:8-9).”
“Everything tends to make us believe that there exists a certain point of the mind at which life and death, the real and the imagined, past and future, the communicable and the incommunicable, high and low, cease to be perceived as contradictions.”
“A cookbook must have recipes, but it shouldn't be a blueprint. It should be more inspirational; it should be a guide.”
“I have never in my life learned anything from any man who agreed with me.”
“When you choose to love as God loves, it will never be safe....but it will set you free.”
“What is inherently wrong with the word 'politician' if the fellow has devoted his life to holding public office and trying to do something for his people?”
“Others are writing my biography, and let it rest as they elect to make it. I have lived my life, well and ill, always less well than I wanted it to be but it is, as it is, and as it has been; so small a thing, to have had so much about it!”
“Parents learn a lot from their children about coping with life”
“And when life throws its worst at you, throw your best at life”
“The sergeant was describing a military life. It was all drinking, he said, except that there were frequent intervals of eating and love making.”
“Life comes from physical survival; but the good life comes from what we care about.”
“The foundation stones for a balanced success are honesty, character, integrity, faith, love and loyalty.”
“Man being reasonable must get drunk; The best of life is but intoxication; Glory, the grape, love, gold - in these are sunk - The hopes of all men and of every nation”
“I’d like to live a life based on doing good stuff instead of just not doing bad stuff.”
“Providence has given us hope and sleep as a compensation for the many cares of life”
“The secret of life is to have a task, something you devote your entire life to, something you bring everything to, every minute of the day for the rest of your life. And the most important thing is, it must be something you cannot possibly do.”
“The poet takes the best things out of his life and puts them into his work. Hence his work is beautiful and his life bad.”
“Tenderness and kindness are not signs of weakness and despair but manifestations of strength and resolution”
“Pessimism is a very easy way out when you're considering what life really is, because pessimism is a short view of life - If you take a long view, I do not see how you can be pessimistic about the future of man or the future of the world”
“I believe that everything happens for a reason. People change so that you can learn to let go, things go wrong so that you appreciate them when they're right, you believe lies so you eventually learn to trust no one but yourself, and sometimes good things fall apart so better things can fall together.”
“You will not be punished for your anger, you will be punished by your anger.”
“The lover of life makes the whole world into his family, just as the lover of the fair sex creates his from all the lovely women he has found, from those that could be found, and those who are impossible to find.”
“Life is to be lived. If you have to support yourself, you had bloody well better find some way that is going to be interesting. And you don't do that by sitting around wondering about yourself.”
“Heaven is where two or more people meet to talk love and peace. Hell is where two or more people meet to talk deceit and war.”
“I had an essence in my life that I was nothing.”
“If someone thinks that love and peace is a cliche that must have been left behind in the Sixties, that's his problem. Love and peace are eternal.”
“When you "settle" for something it means you get "less" than what you deserve.”
“Here's to the crazy ones, the misfits, the rebels, the troublemakers, the round pegs in the square holes... the ones who see things differently -- they're not fond of rules... You can quote them, disagree with them, glorify or vilify them, but the only thing you can't do is ignore them because they change things... they push the human race forward, and while some may see them as the crazy ones, we see genius, because the ones who are crazy enough to think that they can change the world, are the ones who do.”
“I'm selfish, impatient, and a little insecure. I make mistakes, I am out of control, and at times hard to handle. But if you can't handle me at my worst, then you sure as hell don't deserve me at my best.”
“Oh, life is a glorious cycle of song, A medley of extemporanea; And love is a thing that can never go wrong; And I am Marie of Rumania”
“Really great people make you feel that you, too, can become great.”
“Looking back, I have this regret, that too often when I loved, I did not say so.”
“Imagination is more important than knowledge. For knowledge is limited to all we now know and understand, while imagination embraces the entire world, and all there ever will be to know and understand.”
“The GRASS you think is GREENER on the other SIDE, is actually ARTIFICIAL”
“Pick the day. Enjoy it - to the hilt. The day as it comes. People as they come... The past, I think, has helped me appreciate the present - and I don't want to spoil any of it by fretting about the future.”
“Just don't give up on trying to do what you really want to do. Where there is love and inspiration, I don't think you can go wrong.”
“God gave us the gift of life; it is up to us to give ourselves the gift of living well.”
“Most people are prisoners, thinking only about the future or living in the past. They are not in the present, and the present is where everything begins.”
“When we become aware that we do not have to escape our pains, but that we can mobilize them into a common search for life, those very pains are transformed from expressions of despair into signs of hope”
“You don't have a problem until you have a health problem”
“You gotta think numbers have some higher significance in our lives, given the fact before anything we were given the ability to count.”
“Were all playing this game of life, but in the end were all the same. Life does go on, but the only way to succeed is to proceed”
“Health is the greatest gift, contentment the greatest wealth, faithfulness the best relationship.”
“The quickest way to find love is to give love. If you want it too badly, you will not find it. The most secure way to keep love is to give it space and care to grow. If you hold it too tightly, you will lose it.”
“I spent the first fourteen years of my life convinced that my looks were hideous. Adolescence is painful for everyone, I know, but mine was plain weird.”
“Genius goes around the world in its youth incessantly apologizing for having large feet. What wonder that later in life it should be inclined to raise those feet too swiftly to fools and bores.”
“There is a theory which states that if ever for any reason anyone discovers what exactly the Universe is for and why it is here it will instantly disappear and be replaced by something even more bizarre and inexplicable. There is another that states that this has already happened.”
“Blessed is he who has learned to admire but not envy, to follow but not imitate, to praise but not flatter, and to lead but not manipulate”
“Let others lead small lives, but not you. Let others argue over small things, but not you. Let others cry over small hurts, but not you. Let others leave their future in someone else's hands, but not you.”
“The honest man must be a perpetual renegade, the life of an honest man a perpetual infidelity. For the man who wishes to remain faithful must take himself perpetually unfaithful to all the continual, successive, indefatigable, renascent errors.”
“There's plenty of days when I'm like 'Oh God, why? But that's just life. It's every job, not just mine. Every moment is not perfect. But it's definitely more good times than bad. You can't even compare. And when I'm on stage it feels incredible.”
“The experience of life consists of the experience which the spirit has of itself in matter and as matter, in mind and as mind, in emotion, as emotion, etc.”
“If death meant just leaving the stage long enough to change costume and come back as a new character...Would you slow down? Or speed up?”
“If most of us are ashamed of shabby clothes and shoddy furniture, let us be more ashamed of shabby ideas and shoddy philosophies... It would be a sad situation if the wrapper were better than the meat wrapped inside it.”
“Children and lunatics cut the Gordian knot, which the poet spends his life patiently trying to untie”
“If you make every game a life and death proposition, you're going to have problems. For one thing, you'll be dead a lot.”
“The significance of life is life itself”
“Sudden friendship, sure repentance.”
“Write the news as if your very life depended on it. It does!”
“In some respects the life of a censor is more exhilarating that of an emperor. The best the emperor can do is to snip off the heads of men and women, who are mere mortals. The censor can decapitate ideas which but for him might have lived forever.”
“The actual tragedies of life bear no relation to one's preconceived ideas. In the event, one is always bewildered by their simplicity, their grandeur of design, and by that element of the bizarre which seems inherent in them.”
“Life brings simple pleasures to us every day. It is up to us to make them wonderful memories.”
“The man of upright life, unstained by guilt”
“Fear less, hope more; Eat less, chew more; Whine less, breathe more; Talk less, say more; Love more, and all good things will be yours”
“Good or evil? It's really just a matter of perspective.”
“I don't believe in accidents. There are only encounters in history. There are no accidents.”
“Most of the shadows of this life are caused by standing in our own sunshine”
“Have you ever noticed? Anybody going slower than you is an idiot, and anyone going faster than you is a maniac”
“What a man has made himself he will be; his state is the result of his past life, and his heaven or hell is in himself.”
“I would like to explore some side roads in life while I am still in good health and good spirits.”
“Happiness comes from... some curious adjustment to life.”
“Life is too precious to be spent in this weaving and unweaving of false impressions, and it is better to live quietly under some degree of misrepresentation than to attempt to remove it by the uncertain process of letter-writing.”
“The things that we love tell us what we are.”
“I think especially in a world where you have so little say about what goes on in your life, or in the politics of the world around you, it is wonderful to go into that studio, and tell yourself what to do.”
“I had to fight my whole life to break out.”
“This way of life is worth defending.”
“Never build your emotional life on the weaknesses of others.”
“First publication is a pure, carnal leap into that dark which one dreams is life.”
“The chief objection of playing wind instruments is that it prolongs the life of the player”
“My character and good name are in my own keeping. Life with disgrace is dreadful. A glorious death is to be envied.”
“That life is worth living is the most necessary of assumptions, and were it not assumed, the most impossible of conclusions”
“Tragedy is the greatest art form of all. It gives us the courage to continue with our life by exposing us to the pain of life. It is unsentimental, it takes us seriously as human beings, it is not condescending. Paradoxically, by seeing pain we are made greater, it becomes a need.”
“When, in the decline of Life, I gratify the fond wish of my heart in retiring from public labors, and find the language of approbation and fervent prayers for future happiness following that event, my heart expands with gratitude and my feelings beco”
“(on why she called everyone "darling") Because all my life I've been terrible at remembering people's names. Once I introduced a friend of mine as 'Martini'. Her name was actually 'Olive'.”
“Good Riddance (Time of Your Life).”
“If it were possible to have a life absolutely free from every feeling of sin, what a terrifying vacuum it would be.”
“There's a time in your life where everyone's got to tell someone to f**k off. So you might as well show someone how to do it.”
“The most solid comfort one can fall back upon is the thought that the business of one's life is to help in some small way to reduce the sum of ignorance, degradation and misery on the face of this beautiful earth.”
“Believe in yourself, not only in swimming, but in life itself. You always have to have fun. You have to have an open mind. If you're not enjoying it, don't do it. Life's too short.”
“Fifty percent of life in the N.B.A. is sex. The other fifty percent is money.”
“We tend to not appreciate what we have until we lose it.”
“The man who has no inner life is the slave of his surroundings”
“Boots and shoes are the greatest trouble of my life. Everything else one can turn and turn about, and make old look like new; but there's no coaxing boots and shoes to look better than they are.”
“Every life is a profession of faith and exercises an inevitable and silent influence.”
“I think that there is nothing, not even crime, more opposed to poetry, to philosophy, ay, to life itself, than this incessant business”
“A broad margin of leisure is as beautiful in a man's life as in a book.”
“If ever there is tomorrow when we're not together.. there is something you must always remember. you are braver than you believe, stronger than you seem, and smarter than you think. but the most important thing is, even if we're apart.. i'll always be with you.”
“Re-examine all that you have been told... dismiss that which insults your soul.”
“The art of life, of a poet's life, is, not having anything to do, to do something”
“Anxiety in human life is what squeaking and grinding are in machinery that is not oiled. In life, trust is the oil.”
“Happiness starts with telling yourself...I ______________(insert your name here) will change for the better, for the good, and for myself...starting NOW!”
“The true object of all human life is play. Earth is a task garden; heaven is a playground.”
“There is no love without forgiveness, and there is no forgiveness without love.”
“Morality requires an absolute basis a Supreme Law-Giver or else it will be diluted by convenience.”
“Bring 'only' good memories from the past to your present and that will bring you all the happiness,now and in future.”
“You can achieve absolutely anything in life - if you Google it.”
“Life is largely a matter of expectation.”
“Desde el desayuno se conoce la cena...”
“Life grants nothing to us mortals without hard work.”
“The problem with life without parole is that people get out for reasons that have nothing to do with justice. We had a case where a guy who was a rapist, a serial sex offender, was convicted, then let out on what I think an believe was a technicality, a new trial was ordered and the victim wouldn't come back and go through a second trial,”
“If you want to change the world, why don't you start with yourself”
“We are all mirrors of each other...if you don't like what you see in me, than make that change in yourself.”
“The greatest lesson in life is to know that even fools are right sometimes.”
“Don't spend time beating on a wall, hoping to transform it into a door.”
“Count your nights by stars, not shadows; count your life with smiles, not tears.”
“It's not the having, it's the getting.”
“In life there can be no victor, for death comes to all and smites them.”
“The most important lesson that man can learn from his life is not that there is pain in this world, but that it depends upon him to turn it into good account, that it is possible for him to transmute it into joy... Man's freedom is never in being sav”
“As long as the sun shines one does not ask for the moon”
“Miserable mortals who, like leaves, at one moment flame with life, eating the produce of the land, and at another moment weakly perish”
“In all realms of life it takes courage to stretch your limits, express your power, and fulfill your potential... it's no different in the financial realm.”
“Two aged men, that had been foes for life, Met by a grave, and wept - and in those tears They washed away the memory of their strife; Then wept again the loss of all those years.”
“I believe life is a series of near misses. A lot of what we ascribe to luck is not luck at all. It's seizing the day and accepting responsibility for your future. It's seeing what other people don't see And pursuing that vision.”
“Zffff...what was that, sir? That was your life. Can I get another one? No, sorry.”
“The unthankful heart discovers no mercies; but the thankful heart will find, in every hour, some heavenly blessings.”
“When you do more than what you are paid for, you will soon be paid more for what you do.”
“The error of one moment becomes the sorrow of a whole life”
“The wide world is all about you; you can fence yourselves in, but you cannot forever fence it out.”
“Blessed are the hearts that can bend; they shall never be broken.”
“Beginnings are apt to be shadowy and so it is the beginnings of the great mother life, the sea.”
“I don't like myself, I'm crazy about myself”
“It is a fundamental rule of human life that, if the approach is good, the response is good”
“ At the stroke of the midnight hour, when the world sleeps, India will awake to life and freedom.”
“If you can think it, you can do it”
“After being is a situation of solitude for a long time, then penetrating a the frightening boundaries of social interaction, it has become a great struggle to return to a state of solitude.”
“Great achievement is usually born of great sacrifice, and is never the result of selfishness.”
“Just when you thought it was safe to get comfortable and kick ya feet up with the girl you love the second she'll be gone.”
“There is not in the world so toilsome a trade as the pursuit of fame; life concludes before you have so much as sketched your work.”
“I, not events, have the power to make me happy or unhappy today. I can choose which it shall be. Yesterday is dead, tomorrow hasn't arrived yet. I have just one day, today, and I'm going to be happy in it.”
“There are three stages in a person's life, birth, their life and death. They are not conscious of birth submit to death and forget to live.”
“My travels led me to where I am today. Sometimes these steps have felt painful, difficult, but led me to greater happiness and opportunities.”
“Always try to be joyful and proactively benign to the people.
By doing so everyday, people have no control at all over my mood.”
“I love Brad; I really love him. I will love him for the rest of my life, ... I don't regret any of it, and I'm not going to beat myself up about it.”
“Love has no race, creed, nationality or religion.”
“When life becomes a headache the only painkiller is time.”
“There is one thing alone - that stands the brunt of life throughout its course: a quiet conscience”
“When someone follows you all the way to the shop and watches you buy toilet roll, you know your life has changed.”
“Love is always open arms. If you close your arms about love you will find that you are left holding only yourself.”
“Only good choices are free,bad ones always come with a cost.”
“The fountain of death makes the still waters of life play.”
“Less Come To Those Who Rush Things In Life...But More Come To Those Who Wait.”
“If you think you know all the answers well then you forgot to answer all the questions.”
“It may be hard for an egg to turn into a bird: it would be a jolly sight harder for it to learn to fly while remaining an egg. We are like eggs at present. And you cannot go on indefinitely being just an ordinary, decent egg. We must be hatched or go bad.”
“Knowing others is good, but what’s the point if you don’t even know yourself.”
“Last season people said Liverpool was not the best team in the Champions League and that made life easier for us because of the way teams prepared against us.”
“Feeling gratitude and not expressing it is like wrapping a present and not giving it.”
“Success means doing the best we can with what we have. Success is the doing, not the getting; in the trying, not the triumph. Success is a personal standard, reaching for the highest that is in us, becoming all that we can be.”
“Life has no plot. It is far more interesting than anything you can say about it because language, by its very nature, orders things and life really has no order.”
“My dreams have become puny with the reality my life has become.”
“The world breaks everyone, and afterward, some are strong at the broken places.”
“Each person creates the life they live by choosing the words they speak.”
“It is not death that a man should fear, but he should fear never beginning to live.”
“If you change the way you look at things, the things you look at change.”
“Attitude is a little thing that makes a big difference.”
“You gain strength, courage, and confidence by every experience by which you really stop to look fear in the face. You are able to say to yourself, 'I lived through this horror. I can take the next thing that comes along.”
“Your greatness is measured by your kindness; your education and intellect by your modesty; your ignorance is betrayed by your suspicions and prejudices, and your real caliber is measured by the consideration and tolerance you have for others.”
“If you do not raise your eyes you will think you are the highest point.”
“To forgive is the highest, most beautiful form of love. In return, you will receive untold peace and happiness.”
“In the entire history of the universe, let alone in your own history, there has never been another day just like today, and there will never be another just like it again. Today is the point to which all your yesterdays have been leading since the hour of your birth. It is the point from which all your tomorrows will proceed until the hour of your death. If you were aware of how precious today is, you could hardly live through it. Unless you are aware of how precious it is, you can hardly be said to be living at all.”
“A man's character may be learned from the adjectives which he habitually uses in conversation”
“Sing like no one's listening, love like you've never been hurt, dance like nobody's watching, and live like its heaven on earth.”
“To endure is greater than to dare; to tire out hostile fortune; to be daunted by no difficulty; to keep heart when all have lost it; to go through intrigue spotless; to forego even ambition when the end is gained - who can say this is not greatness?”
“If you Regret it Accept it Never Forget it Learn from your lesson and then comes progression”
“Don't write anything you can phone. Don't phone anything you can talk. Don't talk anything you can whisper. Don't whisper anything you can smile. Don't smile anything you can nod. Don't nod anything you can wink.”
“The mintage of wisdom is to know that rest is rust, and that real life is in love, laughter, and work.”
“When life is telling you something you don't want to hear, that's your cue to shut up and listen.”
“We are designed to be tough, thats a success story of all life”
“"There are treasures in life, But owners are few. Please don’t bury the talents, God gave to you." ~Tom Baker”
“Our life is made by the death of others.”
“Man is free at the moment he wishes to be.”
“All theory, dear friend, is gray, but the golden tree of life springs ever green.”
“Life is too short to waste our precious time with stress and frustration. We should concentrate instead on the many things we have to be grateful for.”
“When you are accountable, your are incredible.”
“Live Today! Do not allow your spirit to be softened of your happiness to be limited by a day you cannot have back or a day that does not yet exist.”
“Stop doubting yourself! You were put on this earth to thrive. Don't you dare put a question-mark where God put a period!”
“The right thing to do and the hard thing to do are usually the same.”
“‎"Life is like a rough draft. We are always making changes." ~ Tom Baker”
“When we are judging everything, we are learning nothing.”
“You have the ability to choose your reactions.”
“Reverence is the chief joy and power of life - reverence for that which is pure and bright in youth; for what is true and tried in age; for all that is gracious among the living, great among the dead, - and marvelous in the powers that cannot die”
“If you do what you've always done, you'll get what you've always gotten.”
“Bankrupt of life, yet prodigal of ease”
“All our life is but a going out to the place of execution, to death”
“As for the journey of life; at some point you will realize that YOU are the driver and you will drive!”
“Stop giving your life away to other people”
“Why are you so scared? 
Because I just saw the whole of my future life, and it didn't take very long.”
“Here we are, trapped in the amber of the moment. There is no why.”
“Just for the record, knowing when people are only pretending to like you isn't such a great skill to have.”
“Man arrives as a novice at each age of his life”
“Each action we take in our life is a ripple that expands worldwide.”
“Your fear of the truth does not hide or dilute it.”
“When you change, the people around you will be inspired to change…But only after trying their hardest to make you stop.”
“I am not saying I will vote against John Ashcroft because he is pro-life, ... But let me say if someone was nominated for attorney general who was vehemently pro choice -- who in his or her career spent decades trying to find ways to expand the law abortion at nine months would be perfectly legal -- wouldn't you be more upset and raise more of a voice than against a nominee who was simply pro-choice?”
“A man's life of any worth is a continual allegory - and very few eyes can see the mystery of his life - a life like the scriptures- figurative”
“The question isn't who is going to let me; it's who is going to stop me.”
“Technology is going the wrong way. Instead of working on the next great ipod we need to focus on space travel and colonizing new earths so the human race can thrive and live on after the earth is gone.”
“The first ten thousand miles is the hardest to walk.”
“The key to success is failure”
“Every man dies - Not every man really lives.”
“Out beyond ideas of wrongdoing and rightdoing, there is a field. I will meet you there.”
“If you chase perfection, You will die running”
“Write to be understood, speak to be heard, read to grow...”
“Life is not accountable to us. We are accountable to life.”
“Your name is a large part of you, yourself.”
“life is just a beautiful story that our souls play out”
““Laugh as much as you breathe and love as long as you live.””
“An ''unemployed'' existence is a worse negation of life than death itself.”
“You can love someone with hate, but you can't hate someone with love.”
“My advice to those who are about to begin, in earnest, the journey of life, is to take their heart in one hand and a club in the other”
“The man whose only pleasure in life is making money, weighs less on the moral scale than an angleworm.”
“A man's real life is that accorded to him in the thoughts of other men by reason of respect or natural love.”
“Those who can see tomorrow might offend people stuck looking at today.”
“Life does not cease to be funny when people die any more than it ceases to be serious when people laugh.”
““Religious fanatics...you’re not welcomed here...life is simple...we live, we procreate,, we teach our kids to be good people,, we spread love,, take care of our temples, and we thank the creator for our blessings..Don't confuse me with the foolishness..The world would be a better place if we could really live that way”
“Don't trust people that you have only heard great stories of”
“Why do adults, with all of their gained knowledge and wisdom, teach children to hate and despise those whom they’ve never met, thus fulfilling the cycle of hatred that has caused the pain and suffering, humanity has experienced since it’s conception.”
“No matter where they send him, they'll find out. And every day of his life will be a nightmare.”
“He who sleeps half a day has won half a life.”
“Don't lose yourself... Its good to follow leaders, but its even better to become one...Become the Trend Setter.”
“The death of one threatens the future of many.”
“If you sleep on the game, the game will sleep on you.”
“I'm a DIVA: Daughter of The King, Inner Beauty, Virtuous Woman, Abundantly Living Her Life”
“Life is a game,you are told the rules,then you have to manage how to keep going by them,until the game ends,then you will be told your score depending on how well you followed the rules.”
“The mark of your ignorance is the depth of your belief in injustice and tragedy. What the caterpillar calls the end of the world, the master calls a butterfly.”
“Self Love will get you far. Respect yourself”
“Life is not something we sought but was given to us by others. This life that is not always seen as a gift but at times seen as a burden, and we find ourselves asking why me? Only after releasing your own displeasure caused by the life you are currently submersed in can you better the lives of the people who truthfully care for you.”
“A word of praise or thanks or appreciation or cheer has kept people on their feet. Flying is when you are loaded with ego.”
“I think i lost my mind, but i found my thought.”
“Out of reach you are, a fairytale memoir. A dream so far, now only a scar.”
“Sometimes hypocrisy is found in the least expected places. But always in abundance”
“We will not get anywhere in life unless we wake up one day and decide that enough is enough, and consciously choose to take the time to close all the issues, patterns, belief systems and whatever else is no longer working for us. ~ Joseph Ghabi”
“It wasn't technology that developed slowly, but collective knowledge of society and market demands.”
“A chief event of life is the day in which we have encountered a mind that startled us.”
“Intellectual tasting of life will not supersede muscular activity”
“Nothing is beneath you if it is in the direction of your life; nothing is great or desirable if it is off from that”
“In the hands of the discoverer, medicine becomes a heroic art . . . wherever life is dear he is a demigod.”
“The most important thing is practice in daily life; then you can 
know gradually the true value of religion. Doctrine is not meant for 
mere knowledge, but for the improvement of our minds. In order to do 
that, it must be part of our life. If you put religious doctrine in 
a building and when you leave the building depart from the practices, 
you cannot gain its value.”
“The present time is a gift you can only open once.”
“When you "settle" for something it means you get "less" than what you deserve.”
“"When one door of happiness closes, another opens; but often we look so long at the closed door that we do not see the one which has opened for us"
-Helen Keller”
“You don't know what you got til someone took it away.”
“It is not a pleasant epoch in one's life - the first forty eight hours at a large public school”
“To see, and to show, is the mission now undertaken by Life.”
““There’s no emptiness in the life of a warrior. Everything is filled to the brim. Everything is filled to the brim, and everything is equal.””
“i am among meny men but few are like me.”
“Despite the amount of suffering, pain, misery, sorrow and travail which can exist in life, the reason for existence is the same reason as one has to play a game—interest, contest, activity and possession. The truth of this assertion is established by an observation of the elements of games and then applying these elements to life itself.”
“The happiness of men consists in life. And life is in labor.”
“Boys, there ain't no free lunches in this country. And don't go spending your whole life commiserating that you got the raw deals. You've got to say, "I think that if I keep working at this and want it bad enough I can have it." It's called perseverance.”
“Faith is the force of life.”
“If you think knowledge is dangerous, try ignorance”
“Those who are absent, by its means become present: it (mail) is the consolation of life”
“A man is about as big as the things that make him angry”
“The pain I feel now is the happiness I had before. That's the deal.”
“Scientology explains to me the answers to life, the mind, people, insanity, man, in a way that, to me, is applicable. It doesn't use fear, or suppression or the devil - it's not repressive. Mainly, it's a way for me to figure out who I am. It's a lot of self-discovery; it's not someone you follow or praise.”
“It's not how long you live that matters, but how well.”
“The moment you think that you’ve found out whom you really are, you’ve already changed.”
“To be aware of a single shortcoming within oneself is more useful than to be aware of a thousand in somebody else. Rather than speaking badly about people and in ways that will produce friction and unrest in their lives, we should practice a purer perception of them, and when we speak of others, speak of their good qualities.”
“You have a unique gift to offer this world. Be true to yourself, be kind to yourself, read and learn about everything that interests you and keep away from people who bring you down. When you treat yourself kindly and respect the uniqueness of those around you, you will be giving this world an amazing gift... YOU!”
“If you want to be successful, it's just this simple. Know what you are doing. Love what you are doing. And believe in what you are doing.”
“Who did not love with his whole being and did not wait whole life for the one he loves, does not know what true love is, neither waiting.”
“You don't get in life what you want; you get in life what you are.”
“Most of the shadows of this life are caused by standing in one's own sunshine”
“Man's love is of man's life a thing apart, 'Tis woman's whole existence”
“The fact that there is a general belief in a future life is no evidence of its truth”
“I did not risk my life on the beaches of Normandy to come back to this country and sit idly by while a bunch of hack politicians whittles away your heritage and mine.”
“Love is a lot like Dreams! They both have no borders or boundaries! Except the ones we build in our egoic mind.”
“Faith is a knowledge within the heart, beyond the reach of proof.”
“Remember when you were little and you thought everything was amazing? You were right, and it still is.”
“AdJusT youRSElf beCominG tHe pErson yOu moStlY pRoud tO be Who You thInK ReAlly hAs tHe bEst PlAce iN yOu bY beIng inDiffereNt amonG aLL thE reGreTs aNd FailUreS WhiCh WilL be The fRaGrance Of yOur FutuRe BleSSings...”
“The value of life lies not in the length of days, but in the use we make of them... Whether you find satisfaction in life depends not on your tale of years, but on your will.”
“Every artist undresses his subject, whether human or still life. It is his business to find essences in surfaces, and what more attractive and challenging surface than the skin around a soul?”
“I am getting nowhere with you and I can't let you go and I cant get through.”
“In order to succeed, your desire for success should be greater than your fear of failure.”
“Life is not meant to be easy, my child; but take courage -- it can be delightful.”
“Depression: Sometimes the light at the end of the tunnel is as dark as the beginning.”
“24 says, What if we are Hours of the day, Or years of your life.
All you need to do is something which can describe it.”
“Wake up each day and live your life like a maniac”
“Our journey on the road of life leads us to our lessons. In this, we find ourselves.”
“Everybody is fighting a hard battle that you know nothing about, never give up with yours.”
“Care not for the negative comments of others as we are all judged in the end. I sleep knowing I acted on the side of righteousness, even through my wrath.”
“Never go tapping into the lives of others like you know them and their story! Their story is not yours, tell yours, for that is all you know.”
“Life is not about what was or what will be. It's about what is.”
“The most innovative adventure is to live life of your dream.”
“There are four questions of value in life... What is sacred? Of what is the spirit made? What is worth living for, and what is worth dying for? The answer to each is the same. Only love.”
“a rare and unique individual who lived long for higher purposes. Her life-long devotion to the care of the poor, the sick and the disadvantaged was one of the highest examples of service to humanity.”
““Each day wake up and ask yourself what will make you feel most alive that day.””
“I do the very best I can to look upon life with optimism and hope and looking forward to a better day, but I don't think there is any such thing as complete happiness. I think when you say you're happy, you have everything you need and everything you want, and nothing more to wish for. I haven't reached that stage yet.”
“On the Rampage, Pip, and off the Rampage, Pip; such is Life!”
“Democracy is the wholesome and pure air without which a socialist public organization cannot live a full-blooded life.”
“Don't let any one show you the ropes to the world because usually it will be in the shape of a noose, so hang in there for now.”
“Your thoughts are the deal breakers in your life.”
“If one hater can discourage you to the point that you have to alter your dreams,,, then you weren't meant to go down that path... An army of haters can’t stop me from accomplishing my purpose.. Be strong”
“When life gives you lemons, make grape juice, and let the rest of the world wonder how you did it.”
“the most moving experience of my life. It was an awe-inspiring moment.”
“Be on the alert to recognize your prime at whatever time of your life it may occur.”
“The only reason for the existence of a novel is that it does attempt to represent life.”
“When one is consumed by the sorrows of life, three things give him relief: offspring, a wife, and the company of the Lord's devotees.”
“Death used to announce itself in the thick of life but now people drag on so long it sometimes seems that we are reaching the stage when we may have to announce ourselves to death. It is as though one needs a special strength to die, and not a final weakness.”
“Not many sounds in life, and I include all urban and rural sounds, exceed in interest a knock at the door”
“The devastation in Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama brought unbelievable images into American homes every night. The losses of life and property were simply staggering. And on top of all that, the sight of evacuees choosing between being rescued or remaining with their pets, perhaps even having to leave behind the trained and faithful helping animals that some people with disabilities rely on every day, was just heartbreaking.”
“nothing is worth going for unless going for it is everything.”
“We deem those happy who from the experience of life have learnt to bear its ills without being overcome by them.”
“Friendship is a pretty full-time occupation if you really are friendly with somebody. You can't have too many friends because then you're just not really friends.”
“Acknowledge that you learn just as much, if not more, from your failures as you do from your successes.”
“When you lose sight of your morals, your standards, your true beliefs you lose the fire that drives people to break limits. There is so much we can all accomplish yet so many fail to do so because when its time to step up and face your dreams they cower and turn away and seconds later make excuses for doing so.We all know that life is challenging us to meet our fears that imprison our potential. Breaching that prison is the difference between the losers and the winners of this life and the next.”
“I was thinking about some of the problems that my wife Heather has been through in life,”
“For life is tendency, and the essence of a tendency is to develop in the form of a sheaf, creating, by its very growth, divergent directions among which its impetus is divided.”
“Life is here only to be lived so that we can, through life, earn the right to death, which to me is paradise. Whatever it is that will bring me the reward of paradise, I'll do the best I can.”
“I never told a joke in my life.”
“An eye for an eye" (Exodus 21:24). But not an eye and a life for an eye.”
“If I had to live my life over, I'd live over a saloon.”
“We're not living in a one-dimensional society. You can't just talk about, you know, the horrible things in life and the destruction,”
“Every man carries with him through life a mirror, as unique and impossible to get rid of as his shadow.”
“Perceptive souls who have abandoned passion will not feed on flesh abandoned by life.”
“You did what you did..., then you'll do more.”
“For 25 years, I would have said that the pro-life issue is the most pressing threat to America morally, but pornography has overtaken it, ... More people's lives are being destroyed on a daily basis by addiction to pornography than through abortion.”
“Saving lives is not a top priority in the halls of power. Being compassionate and concerned about human life can cause a man to lose his job. It can cause a woman not to get the job to begin with.”
“Friendship is the hardest thing in the world to explain. It's not something you learn in school. But if you haven't learned the meaning of friendship, you really haven't learned anything.”
“Bach opens a vista to the universe. After experiencing him, people feel there is meaning to life after all.”
“For life is evil. Two souls are in my breast; I see the better, and in the very act of seeing it I do the worse.”
“An Unfinished Life”
“A chain is no stronger than its weakest link, and life is after all a chain.”
“The greatest use of a life is to spend it on something that will outlast it.”
“Crime to many is not crime but simply a way of life. If laws are inconvenient, ignore them, they don't apply to you.”
“Knowledge about life is one thing; effective occupation of a place in life, with its dynamic currents passing through your being, is another.”
“I made my mistakes, but in all my years of public life, I have never profited from public service. I've earned every cent. And in all of my years in public life I have never obstructed justice. And I think, too, that I can say that in my years of pub”
“The weariest and most loathed worldly life, that age, ache, penury and imprisonment can lay on nature is a paradise, to what we fear of death.”
“Life isn't meant to be easy. It's hard to take being on the top - or on the bottom. I guess I'm something of a fatalist. You have to have a sense of history, I think, to survive some of these things... Life is one crisis after another.”
“O, this life
Is nobler than attending for a check,
Richer than doing nothing for a bribe,
Prouder than rustling in unpaid-for silk.”
“A man will sometimes devote all his life to the development of one part of his body -- the wishbone.”
“Frame thy mind to mirth and merriment, which bars a thousand harms, and lengthens life”
“Once one determines that he or she has a mission in life, that's it's not going to be accomplished without a great deal of pain, and that the rewards in the end may not outweigh the pain --if you recognize historically that always happens, then when it comes, you survive it.”
“Wild oats will get sown some time, and one of the arts of life is to sow them at the right time”
“ I am not going to give you a destination. I can only give you a direction - awake, throbbing with life, unknown, always surprising, unpredictable.”
“Yoo-Hoo, I hope, will be my life”
“If you just set out to be liked, you would be prepared to compromise on anything at any time, and you would achieve nothing.”
“Those who dream by day are cognizant of many things that escape those who dream only at night.”
“Everybody ought to have a lower East Side in their life.”
“Life is God's novel. Let him write it.”
“Hate the sin and love the sinner.”
“Life is pain and the enjoyment of love is an anesthetic.”
“A happy life consists in tranquillity of mind.”
“The most terrifying words in the English langauge are: I'm from the government and I'm here to help.”
“If a women is unhappy with herself,, then she can't please her man genuinely. Please yourself first”
“Despite their pain and mourning, they accepted to give a second life to people in need.”
“God put me on this earth to accomplish a certain number of things. Right now I am so far behind that I will never die.”
“The secret to having everything you want out of life is the realization that you really don't want most of the things you think you want.”
“Between us and heaven or hell there is only life, which is the frailest thing in the world.”
“A nomad I will remain for life, in love with distant and uncharted places.”
“I'm young, and I have my life together. I have a house and a full-time job, and I'm very independent.”
“The hardest years in life are those between ten and seventy.”
“Life would give her everything of consequence, life would shape her, not we. All we were good for was to make the introductions.”
“The saddest thing I can imagine is to get used to luxury.”
“You will never find the best when you are always looking for the worst.”
“I’ve learned that whenever I decide something with an open heart, I usually make the right decision.”
“I never know what to get my father for his birthday. I gave him a hundred dollars and said, 'Buy yourself something that will make your life easier.' So he went out and bought a present for my mother.”
“Actually, I only have a few friends in real life. And when I say friends, I'm referring to those people who I've known since the 1960s.”
“I say, when life gives you a lemon, wing it right back and add some lemons of your own!”
“I suppose if we couldn't laugh at things that don't make sense, we couldn't react to a lot of life.”
“Made, bitter-sweet, from fruits of life - There is a wine; It quenches every human thirst- we call it time”
“I see a man taking a break in his highly structured life, reading a newspaper in the park, or a young man sitting on a curb eating a sandwich and reading a book, taking the moment for himself. I celebrate these moments in bronze.”
“All my life, my heart has yearned for a thing I cannot name.”
“You gave me the ride of my life, and I've tried to give as good as I got.”
“What then is freedom ? The power to live as one wishes”
“The higher we soar, the smaller we appear to those who cannot fly.”
“I think, in my life and in my experience, teens have stress, and everybody's stress is unique, and everybody's frame of reference is different”
“The final wisdom of life requires not the annulment of incongruity but the achievement of serenity within and above it.”
“Why are some of the best things in life some of the things that hurt us the most?”
“My best friends are books, I can easily read them and take them wherever I go.”
“Small moments accumulate and transform the texture of our days”
“In life, you either have the results you want, or you have reasons to explain why you don’t have them. If you have the results, you don’t need the reasons”
“I have waited twenty-two years for this . . . I've waited all my life for this opportunity.”
“You only have this life because you are strong enough to live it.”
“Those of us we have been true readers all our life fully realize the enormous extension of our being which we owe to authors”
“All we have gained then by our unbelief Is a life of doubt diversified by faith, For one of faith diversified by doubt: We called the chess-board white, - we call it black”
“It has taken me all my life to understand it is not necessary to understand everything.”
“Between men and women there is no friendship possible. There is passion, enmity, worship, love, but no friendship.”
“Life is wonderful. People think that just because you get sick or you have a problem you are supposed to be miserable, ... It is almost like the two go hand-in-hand like pancakes and syrup. Did you know that there are people who don't use syrup on their pancakes? We don't have to be miserable. The only thing you have to be is careful. You have to take care of yourself.”
“I was a victim of a series of accidents, as are we all...”
“The only choice that we lack is the choice to choose.”
“Life is a verb.”
“The longest journey through life, is down the path that leads us Home.”
“Above our life we love a steadfast friend.”
“You can do anything you want in this world as long as you cheat off the right person.”
“At some point in your life if you're lucky you throw practicality to the wind and
start living.”
“Every day, think as you wake up, today I am fortunate to be alive, I have a
precious human life, I am not going to waste it. I am going to use all my energies
to develop myself, to expand my heart out to others; to achieve enlightenment for
the benefit of all beings. I am going to have kind thoughts towards others, I am
not going to get angry or think badly about others. I am going to benefit others as
much as I can.”
“There is a better way to do it; find it. sign Thomas Edison had hanging in his
office A fool vents all his feelings, but a wise man holds them back. Proverbs Joy
can be real only if people look upon their lives as an opportunity to be of service,
and have a definite object in life outside themselves and their personal happiness.”
“I want to thank you
for giving me the best day of my life.”
“There are only two ways to live your life. One as though nothing is a miracle. The
other is as though everything is a miracle.”
“Life is meant to lived. Happily. With joy. Gratitude. Appreciation. Good friends. Like a pleasant stroll in your favorite park.”
“Knowing others is wisdom, knowing yourself is enlightenment.”
“Arigatou, Merci, Thank You or Terima Kasih is the hardest word to be said but the best to be heard...”
“I love to love those who love to hate me and I laugh at the laughter directed against me.”
“Never lose sight of your dreams, for your dreams can be your guidance.”
“Only in the agony of parting do we look into the depths of love.”
“Live your life so that it would even inspire you.”
“In my house I'm the boss, my wife is just the decision maker.”
“Life's a game with simple rules: you try your best, see how far you can get, then enjoy being better than what you ever thought you could be.”
“I think LOVE stands for Letting Ourselves Value Everyone ... give yourself a chance to understand the value of everyone around ... it is not always YOU it is US that matter”
“Our lives are embellished enough with designers and chrome, death is one thing that doesn't need tinsel.”
““Some men aren’t looking for anything logical, like money. They can’t be bought, bullied, reasoned or negotiated with. Some men just want to watch the world burn.””
“When women go wrong, men go right after them.”
“Today is the first day of the last chapter of my life, ... It is here on Sado island that I will hopefully live my remaining days with my wife and children.”
“Don't be a 'good example' of a 'bad example'.”
“Abuse changes your life...Fight Back and change the life of your abusers by Breaking Your Silence on Abuse!”
“The worst time of my life was the next two weeks that we won the championship and thousands of hate letters started coming in. And it really didn't dawn on me what this was all about until that time.”
“At times it seems so much easier to pretend nothing is wrong rather than deal with it. It's like sticking a wad of gum over a crack in a dam. We all know how that's going to work out.”
“No doubt there are other important things in life besides conflict, but there are not many other things so inevitably interesting. The very saints interest us most when we think of them as enganged in a conflict with the Devil.”
“You know when you walk into a dark room without a light you can't tell what is truly in it, riches or stones. This is much like life, you need to be an illuminating torch and reveal the hidden treasures of the world”
“We should all be obliged to appear before a board every five years and justify our existence...on pain of liquidation.”
“There are deserts in every life, and the desert must be depicted if we are to give a fair and complete idea of the country.”
“My life was changed in one breath from God.”
“I have to live for others and not for myself; that's middle class morality”
“Remember. It's not murder it's assisted suicide.”
“A lawyer starts life giving $500 worth of law for $5 and ends giving $5 worth for $500.”
“A great pleasure in life is doing what people say you cannot do.”
“As long as I have a want, I have a reason for living. Satisfaction is death.”
“If you can't have a laugh, what's life about?”
“Life is 10% what happens to you and 90% how you react to it”
“Who I am today is a constant reminder of what I took from my past challenges.”
“Is it sufficient that you have learned to drive the car, or shall we look and see what is under the hood? Most people go through life without ever knowing.”
“Life as we know it in New Orleans and Tulane has changed. We have leaned on each other and gotten support. And there may be a stronger resolve than there has ever been.”
“A sense of humor... is needed armor. Joy in one's heart and some laughter on one's lips is a sign that the person down deep has a pretty good grasp of life.”
“The best day of your life is the one on which you decide your life is your own. No apologies or excuses. No one to lean on, rely on, or blame. The gift is yours - it is an amazing journey - and you alone are responsible for the quality of it. This is the day your life really begins.”
“I've been a sports fan all my life, and like most other actors, I'm convinced I could have been a pro athlete if Hollywood hadn't come calling,”
“May all nurture their children and grand children properly and be blessed with 100 years of healthy life.”
“I must ever believe that religion substantially good which produces an honest life, and we have been authorized by One whom you and I equally respect, to judge of the tree by its fruit”
“Playing at Carolina gave me a foundation for my entire life. It was a great foundation for me. I was with great players and a great coach and assistant coaches. We all developed the belief that basketball was more than just an individual game. But it also prepared me for life, as a father and a husband and a man. How to be selfless in what you do.”
“Since feeling is first, who pays any attention to the syntax of things will never wholly kiss you, wholly to be a fool while spring is in the world, then laugh. lean back in my arms, for life's not a paragraph, and death, I think, is no parenthesis.”
“Life ain't more than gameboard space
With hoops to jump and dreams to chase
And one day fate'll put us all in our place
Going going gone
And one day God might come on back
With a summer tan and a Cadillac
Time, he'll laugh, why I just lost track
What else could he really say?”
“Be as little children, forgive, make up, and forget, quickly. So that we can enjoy each other's company”
“Failure wants you to succeed, if only you will listen.”
“We are born, so to speak, twice over; born into existence, and born into life; born a human being, and born a man.”
“Good government is no substitute for self-government”
“What can be said in New Year rhymes,
That's not been said a thousand times?
The new years come, the old years go,
We know we dream, we dream we know.
We rise up laughing with the light,
We lie down weeping with the night.
We hug the world until it stings,
We curse it then and sigh for wings.
We live, we love, we woo, we wed,
We wreathe our prides, we sheet our dead.
We laugh, we weep, we hope, we fear,
And that's the burden of a year.”
“Time is not measured by the passing of years but by what one does, what one feels, and what one achieves.”
“I am always doing what I cannot do yet, in order to learn how to do it”
“The fear of the Lord tendeth to life: and he that hath it shall abide satisfied; he shall not be visited with evil (Proverbs 19:23).”
“A man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth. [Luke 12:15].”
“As we advance in life it becomes more and more difficult, but in fighting the difficulties the inmost strength of the heart is developed.”
“Firmament and planets both disappeared, but the might breath which gives life to all things and in which is bound up remained.”
“I am risking my life for my work, and half my reason has gone.”
“Because thy loving kindness is better than life, my lips shall praise thee (Psalms 63:3).”
“The letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life”
“My function in life was to render clear what was already blindingly conspicuous”
“My son, let not them depart from thine eyes: keep sound wisdom and discretion: / So shall they be life unto thy soul, and grace to thy neck.”
“I cannot join the space program and restart my life as an astronaut, but this opportunity to connect my abilities as an educator with my interests in history and space is a unique opportunity to fulfill my early fantasies.”
“At a point in every person's life, one has to look deeply into the mirror of one's soul and decide one's unique truth in the world, not as we may want to see it or hope to see it, but as it is,”
“We must grieve his passing, thank God for his life, and celebrate it. ... This is the end of a chapter, but not the end of the story, because we believe in the Resurrection,”
“So let the haters hate, let the doubters doubt, I stand by my book, and my life, and I won't dignify this bullshit with any sort of further response.”
“There was no difference between my characters and the life my readers were going to have to face.”
“Existence is the only reality for the self. As water cannot be separated from wetness, so you, the self, cannot be separated from existence. Existence is an integral aspect of your essence.”
“The packaging for a microwavable "microwave" dinner is programmed for a shelf life of maybe six months, a cook time of two minutes and a landfill dead-time of centuries.”
“Being healthy is just letting life grow through your garbage.”
“I have had many troubles in my life, but the worst of them never came”
“Remember you have to be comfortable. Golf is not a life or death situation. It's just a game and should be treated as such. Stay loose.”
“After taking such a birth, O Arjuna, one regains the knowledge acquired in the previous life, and strives again to achieve perfection.”
“Three passions have governed my life: The longings for love, the search for knowledge, And unbearable pity for the suffering of [humankind]. Love brings ecstasy and relieves loneliness. In the union of love I have seen In a mystic miniature the prefiguring vision Of the heavens that saints and poets have imagined. With equal passion I have sought knowledge. I have wished to understand the hearts of [people]. I have wished to know why the stars shine. Love and knowledge led upwards to the heavens, But always pity brought me back to earth; Cries of pain reverberated in my heart”
“It is a time when one's spirit is subdued and sad, one knows not why; when the past seems a storm-swept desolation, life a vanity and a burden, and the future but a way to death.”
“Life may be not only meaningless but absurd.”
“I've never thrown a chair in my life.”
“In many walks of life, a conscience is a more expensive encumbrance than a wife or a carriage.”
“Next Minute I am Going To Live or Die,Nothing else is new to me.”
“I consider my life one long string of failures, but all of the failure has made me more grateful to be alive, more joyous in the moment and more appreciative for every day I have.”
“It’s taken me all my life to learn what not to play.”
“Attitude is what makes the difference.You either make your life better or bitter....”
“Life consists not simply in what heredity and environment do to us but in what we make out of what they do to us.”
“At times our life is like a movie in a foreign language.By the time you understand what it is all about,the film comes to an end...”
“The tragedy of life is not so much what men suffer, but rather what they miss”
“Yale is a crucible in American life for the accommodation of intellectual achievement, of wisdom, of refinement, with the democratic ideals of openness, of social justice and of equal opportunity.”
“Unlike most films, it examines a side of a person's life that's hidden, and I think there's a lot of people who carry around a fair amount of darkness and keep it private for a lifetime. The film is about a very public figure and his very private tragedy.”
“If there is such a thing as a good marriage, it is because it resembles friendship rather than love.”
“Genius can do much, but even genius falls short of the actuality of a single human life.”
“Keep your sense of humor. There's enough stress in the rest of your life to let bad shots ruin a game you're supposed to enjoy.”
“Youth is to all the glad season of life; but often only by what it hopes, not by what it attains, or what it escapes.”
“Grief is the agony of an instant; the indulgence of grief the blunder of a life”
“As a rule, he -or she- who has the most information will have the greatest success in life.”
“THE tongue is the armour of heart; it guards one's life. Loud talk, long talks, wild talk, and talk full of anger and hate; all these affect the health of man. Why is silence said to be golden? The silent man has no enemies, though he may not have friends. He has the leisure and the chance to delve within himself and examine his own faults and failings. He has no more inclination to seek them (fault) in others.”
“There is no more mistaken path to happiness than worldliness, revelry, high life”
“Each day is a little life; every waking and rising a little birth; every fresh morning a little youth; every going to rest and sleep a little dearth.”
“There is no finer sensations in life that which comes with victory over one's self. Go forward to a goal of inward achievement, brushing aside all your old internal enemies as you advance.”
“The mass of mankind are evidently slavish in their tastes, preferring a life suitable to beasts”
“I would dare say that most anyone in public life, if they stay in public long enough, is not treated fairly.”
“Can a husband ever carry about a secret all his life and a woman who loves him have no suspicion of it? I knew it by his refusal to talk about some episodes in his American life. I knew it by certain precautions he took. I knew it by certain words he let fall. I knew it by the way he looked at unexpected strangers.”
“As you value your life or your reason keep away from the moor.”
“A wise man's day is worth a fool's life.”
“...One loves the sunset when one is sad...”
“An Altar in life, alters our life.”
“Life should be great rather than long.”
“It's a mere moment in a man's life between the All-Star Game and an old timer's game.”
“The essence of life is the smile of round female bottoms, under the shadow of cosmic boredom.”
“Life happens at the level of events, not words”
“It is easy to believe that life is long and one's gifts are vast -- easy at the beginning, that is. But the limits of life grow more evident; it becomes clear that great work can be done rarely, if at all.”
“I detest life-insurance agents; they always argue that I shall some day die, which is not so”
“Ethics, too, are nothing but reverence for life. This is what gives me the fundamental principle of morality, namely, that good consists in maintaining, promoting, and enhancing life, and that destroying, injuring, and limiting life are evil.Civilization and Ethics, 1949”
“It is good to maintain and cherish life; it is evil to destroy and to cheek life”
“It became their motto, and Jonesy couldn't for the life of him remember which of them started saying it first. Payback's a bitch, that was his. ~ Dreamcatcher”
“I am life that with to live in the midst of other life that wills to live.”
“Any religion or philosophy, which is not based on a respect for life is not a true religion or philosophy.”
“Freedom is never dear at any price. It is the breath of life. What would a man not pay for living ?”
“A hundred times every day I remind myself that my inner and outer life are based on the labors of others.”
“I don't know what that means: Be their mom? Be responsible for their career success? Share my life secrets with them? I advise women to build a mosaic of experts and guides that will cover each of the areas where you need specific information and advice. Someone who's good at office politics, someone who's a good time manager, and so on.”
“Claire literally saves his life. And to me there's no better story to tell than how someone can process a knock. A hero is someone who turns their disappointment into a greater opportunity. This woman helps him on the path.”
“Illumination is the purpose of life; of the recurring sequence of birth and death.”
“Life sends you angels sometimes when you're in need and, in my theory, it's usually never the people you expect to be there, ... They are often gone the people that appear with a piece of advice or something they want to give to you to help you through are generally surprising people and I wanted Kirsten's character to be that.”
“Those who have not shown anything during their responsible life will have nothing to reap in the future”
“Life covered his graduation,”
“I sincerely hope you have also learned from this awful experience. There is no room for vengeance in my life.”
“about an angry man who learns to appreciate the little things in life. It's about acceptance.”
“I have to say I've worked very few days of my life. I used to have to cut the lawn, and when I was in junior high school, I worked at a concession stand at a stadium.”
“What is important is to have values in life. What's important is how you are, not how you look.”
“It's not a big feature of our life.”
“No life is a waste. The only time we waste is the time we spend thinking we are alone.”
“Just think of how stupid the average person is, and then realize half of them are even stupider!”
“Life, if you're fat, is a minefield - you have to pick your way, otherwise you blow up”
“To change one's life: 1. Start immediately, 2. Do it flamboyantly, 3. No exceptions.”
“Once people start realizing that we are all one, all heaven will break loose.”
“The show is not about his personal life, ... but you get curious about that, so we wanted to get a greater glimpse into who this guy was. It's really tricky to find someone to play opposite him, to stand up to him, somebody that you would believe this sort of character would be interested in, and would be interested in this character.”
“There is power, value, happiness and fulfillment in a life of purpose.”
“Wake up each day and live your life like a maniac”
“Faith is not Hope inside Dogma but Alignment with Truth Inside Living”
“I'm laughing because I know the secret of life. And the secret of life is that I have validated my existence. I know that I am worth more than my house, my bank account, or any physical thing.”
“Today you are You, that is truer than true. There is no one alive who is Youer than You.”
“I don't respond to music that's not honest, and music's had a huge influence on my whole life. It's gotten me through everything. I don't respond to music that's full of crap . Since it's also a therapeutic and cathartic thing for me to write, I'm not going to go halfway or be some puffball.”
“Nothing is so exhilarating in life as to be shot at with no result.”
“Most people want to live on the earth for as long as they possibly can but most do not want to take care of it”
“I can't write my life story without Emmitt and Troy. They can't write their life stories without me. We're tied together forever. This is a day to remember for the rest of our lives.”
“This above all; to thine own self be true.”
“Love has always been the most important business in my life, I should say the only one”
“You cannot do a kindness too soon, for you never know how soon it will be too late.”
“Love is the immortal flow of energy that nourishes, extends and preserves. Its eternal goal is life.”
“I went to Ithaca, found the Grateful Dead and my life was changed.”
“A notebook can be a clearing in the forest of your life, a place where you can be alone and content as
you play with outrage and wonder, details and gossip, language and dreams, plots and subplots, perceptions and small epiphanies.”
“I don't really wish that it didn't happen because it has changed my life so much. If it didn't happen, I don't know if I ever would have waken up.”
“Life may not be party you hoped for,But that doesnt mean u should stop dancing!Remember you are the D.J of your life,
Just spin it,Rock it and Enjoy it.”
“I should have known better. Pro-life arguments are now based on scientific evidence and the pro-choice arguments are not. That is a cultural, historical fact.”
“Much more happiness is to be found in the world than gloomy eyes discover.”
“There's nothing like a family crisis, especially a divorce, to force a person to re-evaluate his life.”
“I am convinced that it is not the fear of death, of our lives ending that haunts our sleep so much as the fear... that as far as the world is concerned, we might as well never have lived.”
“Contentment is not something to be gained by possession.
You can not work simply at being content,
but must work at making a difference.
True contentment is gained
by the difference you make in the lives of others.”
“Free yourself from the imprisonment of your own limiting beliefs and prejudices.”
“Remember, nothing in life comes labeled, YOU are the labeler.”
“It's actually in simplifying life that you get the greatest strength.”
“Superstition is poetry of life, so that it does not injure the poet to be superstitious”
“Hard conditions of life are indispensable to bringing out the best in human personality”
“He alone deserves liberty and life who daily must win them anew”
“Genius is formed in quiet, character in the stream of human life”
“Give me excitement, give me love, give me uncertainty, give me the life unknown.”
“I have reached a place in my life where I need to sit down and say, 'Well, what do I do? What's best for me?' I need to look into options for the future.”
“Failure is not fatal. Failure should be our teacher, not our undertaker. It should challenge us to new heights of accomplishments, not pull us to new depths of despair. From honest failure can come valuable experience.”
“There is no calling in life nobler than to serve the people of one's nation in pursuit of the Jeffersonian ideal of "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness." I, for one, feel privileged every day, every single day to be able to serve the people of the Philippines and to be associated with democrats like you from all over the world.”
“How much more grievous are the consequences of anger than the causes of it.”
“Life begins on the other side of despair.”
“The struggle for democracy and human rights in Burma is a struggle for life and dignity. It is a struggle that encompasses our political, social and economic aspirations.”
“I always laugh the hardest at the stuff you see in day-to-day life. It's great when somebody can tell a joke that really makes you laugh hard, but to see some kind of personal interaction that no one could write is so good. Those are always the things that make me laugh.”
“Anyone who attempts to relate his life loses himself in the immediate. One can only speak of another.”
“They are the only honest hypocrites, their life is a voluntary dream, a studied madness.”
“So I have loitered my life away, reading books, looking at pictures, going to plays, hearing, thinking, writing on what pleased me best. I have wanted only one thing to make me happy, but wanting that have wanted everything.”
“Our notions with respect to the importance of life, and our attachment to it, depend on a principle which has very little to do with its happiness or its misery. . . . The love of life is, in general, the effect not of our enjoyments, but of our passions.”
“In actual life, every great enterprise begins with and takes its first forward step in faith.”
“We have almost succeeded in leveling all human activities to the common denominator of securing the necessities of life and providing for their abundance.”
“Man could direct his ways by plain reason, and support his life by tasteless food, but God has given us wit, and flavor, and brightness, and laughter to enliven the days of man's pilgrimage, and to charm his pained steps over the burning marble”
“Everything we do in life is based on fear, especially love.”
“Happiness is the exercise of one's vital abilities along lines of excellence in a life that affords them scope”
“Sometimes it takes years to really grasp what has happened to your life.”
“Each child is an adventure into a better life - an opportunity to change the old pattern and make it new.”
“Let sleep itself be an exercise in piety, for such as our life and conduct have been, so also of necessity will be our dreams.”
“There is no time of life past learning something.”
“Each religion, so dear to those whose life it sanctifies, and fulfilling so necessary a function in the society that has adopted it, necessarily contradicts every other religion, and probably contradicts itself”
“To condemn spontaneous and delightful occupations because they are useless for self-preservation shows an uncritical prizing of life irrespective of the content.”
“Life at its noblest leaves mere happiness far behind; and indeed cannot endure it. Happiness is not the object of life: life has no object. It is an end in itself; and courage consists in the readiness to sacrifice happiness for a more intense qualit”
“Make the mind, the voice and the actions agree in harmony. That is the right way of life.”
“Life is, Loving - Listening - Lifting - Learning - Living”
“People in high life are hardened to the wants and distresses of mankind as surgeons are to their bodily pains.”
“A sedentary life is the real sin against the Holy Spirit. Only those thoughts that come by walking have any value.”
“But this is life on earth, you can't have everything.”
“Love all and serve all. Your entire life will be sanctified thereby.”
“Understand that society is the source of whatever pleasure one derives and whatever wealth one achieves in life.”
“Life is a mirage; It comes from no visible rain; It falls into no recognizable sea.”
“The wise are cheerful and content with their lot in life.”
“Bring something into your daily practice, as evidence of your having known the secret of higher life from Me.”
“Service is divine - It makes life worthwhile.”
“Human life is precious, sublime and meaningful. But by involvement in purely worldly pursuits, the greatness of human birth is forgotten.”
“Man staggers through life yapped at by his reason, pulled and shoved by his appetites, whispered to by fears, beckoned by hopes. Small wonder that what he craves most is self-forgetting.”
“Faith is like our life breath. It is impossible to live even for a minute in this world without faith.”
“Make your life a rose that speaks silently in the language of the heart.”
“I don't know about the rest of you, but I feel pressed and tense almost every day of my life about something or other. And I think it's the one thing, as I look into people's eyes, that I think I share with almost everybody.”
“To progress in life you must give up the things you do not like. Give up doing the things that you do not like to do. You must find the things that you do like. The things that are acceptable to your mind.”
“I argue thee that love is life. And life hath immortality.”
“To disbelieve in the gods is at the same time to affirm life, purpose and beauty.”
“Neither in my private life nor in my writings, have I ever made a secret of being an out and out unbeliever”
“Whatever the number of a man's friends, there will be times in his life when he has one too few, but if he has only one enemy, he is lucky indeed if he has not one too many”
“When it comes time to do your own life, you either perpetuate your childhood or you stand on it and finally kick it out from under.”
“I'm an average nobody. I get to live the rest of my life like a schnook.”
“I was completely nuts for most of my life.”
“What you get is a living - what you give is a life”
“Life is very short, try everything you've dreamed about 
(within the perimeters of sanity and the law) and regret nothing. 
Oh, and don't forget the sunscreen.”
“Life gets better when you embrace your geekiness”
“In vain we chisel, as best we can, the mysterious block of which our life is made, the black vein of destiny reappears continually.”
“The secret of long life is double careers. One to about age sixty, then another for the next thirty years.”
“It only takes one person to change your life - you”
“Our dreams are a second life. I have never been able to penetrate without a shudder those ivory or horned gates which separate us from the invisible world.”
“Life can't be all bad when for ten dollars you can buy all the Beethoven sonatas and listen to them for ten years.”
“Home life ceases to be free and beautiful as soon as it is founded on borrowing and debt”
“Life is a dream walking death is a going home.”
“For me, the most memorable adventures are still the perils that we face daily in life and love, from the mundane to the meaningful. Where the comedy is often at our own expense, but where the drama, even if painful, reminds us that we are living and feeling here in the real time, with the ever-recurring possibility that this latest chapter will end with new understanding, hope and perhaps even happiness.”
“If you step on people in this life, you're going to come back as a cockroach.”
“It is better to have a meaningful life and make a difference than to merely have a long life.”
“Love's boat has been shattered against the life of everyday. You and I are quits, and it's useless to draw up a list of mutual hurts, sorrows, and pains.”
“One's work usually occupies more than half of one's waking life. Choosing work that does not bring happiness will lead to a life that is mostly disappointing.”
“The likeness of this world's life is only as water which We send down from the cloud, then the herbage of the earth of which men and cattle eat grows luxuriantly thereby, until when the earth puts on its golden raiment and it becomes garnished, and its people think that they have power over it, Our command comes to it, by night or by day, so We render it as reaped seed; produce, as though it had not been in existence yesterday; thus do We make clear the communications for a people who reflect.”
“In the funeral home, I never heard laughter like that in my life. The audience was laughing on the screen, and we were laughing in the home.”
“You can achieve anything you want in life if you have the courage
to dream it, the intelligence to make a realistic plan, and the will to
see that plan through to the end.”
“Although you may spend your life killing, You will not exhaust all your foes. But if you quell your own anger, your real enemy will be slain.”
“Who is blind, dumb and deaf will live a peaceful life of a hundred years.”
“Personal law is simply the thought that controls your mind and your life more than any other thought. Finding that thought is the most valuable knowledge that you can have about yourself. It is like the leverage on personal change. It enables you to change very efficiently.”
“Until the June 1967 war I was completely caught up in the life of a young professor of English. Beginning in 1968, I started to think, write, and travel as someone who felt himself to be directly involved in the renaissance of Palestinian life and politics.”
“Hear, O my son, and receive my sayings; and the years of thy life shall be many (Proverbs 4:10).”
“Keep thy heart with all diligence; for out of it are the issues of life (Proverbs 4:23).”
“There is an hour wherein a man might be happy all his life, could he find it”
“What is in one's life stays there to the end of one's life.”
“Never be bullied into silence. Never allow yourself to be made a victim. Accept no one's definition of your life; define yourself.”
“Your face encompasses the beauty of the whole earth. Your lips, as red as ripening fruit, gently part as if in pain. It is the smile of a corpse. Now the hand of death touches life. The chain is forged that links the thousand families that are dead to the thousand generations to come.”
“I didn't expect him to be that mad in real life.”
“And He it is Who gives life and causes death, and (in) His (control) is the alternation of the night and the day; do you not then understand? / Nay, they say the like of what the ancients said: / They say: What! When we are dead and become dust and bones, shall we then be raised? / Certainly we are promised this, and (so were) our fathers aforetime; this is naught but stories of those of old.”
“In Europe life is histrionic and dramatized, and . . . in America, except when it is trying to be European, it is direct and sincere.”
“With long life will I satisfy him, and show him my salvation (Psalms 91:16).”
“He made man, and put his heart in the midst of the body, and gave him breath, life, and understanding (Ezra 16:61).”
“If we get you in the early years of your life and we fill your head with all of the Catholic stories, then it's very hard for you to stop being Catholic. Catholics are Catholics because they like being Catholic.”
“No man loves life like him that's growing old”
“I spent the afternoon musing on Life. If you come to think of it, what a queer thing Life is! So unlike anything else, don't you know, if you see what I mean.”
“You have a four-fold life to live: a body, a brain, a heart and a soul . . . these are your living tools. To use and develop them is not a task. . . . It is a golden opportunity.”
“A little government and a little luck are necessary in life, but only a fool trusts either of them.”
“Who redeemeth thy life from destruction; who crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender mercies (Psalms 103:4).”
“To a modern mind, it is difficult to feel enthusiastic about a virtuous life if nothing is going to be achieved by it.”
“We love our habits more than our income, often more than our life.”
“What she did was to open our eyes to details of country life such as teaching us names of wild flowers and getting us to draw and paint and learn poetry.”
“One Moment in Annihilation's Waste, / One Moment, of the Well of Life to taste - / The Stars are setting and the Caravan / Starts for the Dawn of Nothing - Oh, make haste!”
“Real life is, to most men, a long second-best, a perpetual compromise between the ideal and the possible; but the world of pure reason knows no compromise, no practical limitations, no barrier to the creative activity.”
“Rules of Health and long Life, and to preserve from Malignant Fevers, and Sickness in general.”
“'Tis better leave for an enemy at one's death, than beg of a friend in one's life”
“It is very remarkable, that in the book of life, we find some almost of all kinds of occupations, who notwithstanding served God in their respective generations, and shone as so many lights in the world.”
“My objection to Liberalism is this -- that it is the introduction into the practical business of life of the highest kind -- namely, politics -- of philosophical ideas instead of political principles.”
“Courage is what preserves our liberty, safety, life, and our homes and parents, our country and children. Courage comprises all things.”
“Wind to a sailor is what money is to life on shore.”
“Of any stopping place in life, it is good to ask whether it will be a good place from which to go on as well as a good place to remain.”
“Nowadays, manners are easy and life is hard”
“If life were just, we would be born old and achieve youth about the time we'd saved enough to enjoy it.”
“Look down on your life,”
“There is nothing more important in life than love.”
“Where I used to think that this life would be good. And I would do things that I thought that I should. And no one's going to tear me down.”
“We're going to play the song that we wrote for him. It's about Jared and the life he lived. We played it at his funeral. We played it at his burial.”
“The deepest definition of youth is life as yet untouched by tragedy”
“Judgment can be acquired only by acute observation, by actual experience in the school of life, by ceaseless alertness to learn from others, by study of the activities of men who have made notable marks, by striving to analyze the everyday play of ca”
“A man is ethical only when life, as such, is sacred to him, that of plants and animals as that of his fellow men, and when he devotes himself helpfully to all life that is in need of help.”
“With the death toll still rising, it will take untold millions of dollars to get back some semblance of life along the nation's Gulf Coast. Most of us will never truly understand what it is like to have your life turned upside down overnight. No place to call your own. To become homeless in a day is unthinkable,”
“Wisdom is having things right in your life
and knowing why.”
“Without the illness I would never have been forced to re-evaluate my life and my career. I know if I had not had cancer, I would not have won the Tour de France.”
“Life contains but two tragedies. One is not to get your heart's desire; the other is to get it.”
“Life should be lived so vividly and so intensely that thoughts of another life, or of a longer life, are not necessary.”
“I love my job, and I love my life. I mean, there's the pressures of being away from family and people that you love, but I deal with that. I've got a fantastic job.”
“Despite the amount of suffering, pain, misery, sorrow and travail which can exist in life, the reason for existence is the same reason as one has to play a game—interest, contest, activity and possession. The truth of this assertion is established by an observation of the elements of games and then applying these elements to life itself.”
“Do not let trifles disturb your tranquility of mind. . . . Life is too precious to be sacrificed for the nonessential and transient. . . . Ignore the inconsequential!”
“Fear is the sand in the machinery of life.”
“You've got to keep fighting - you've got to risk your life every six months to stay alive”
“The art of advertisement, after the American manner, has introduced into all our life such a lavish use of superlatives, that no standard of value whatever is intact.”
“My job in this life is to give people spiritual ecstasy through music. In my concerts people cry, laugh, dance. If they climaxed spiritually, I did my job. I did it decently and honestly.”
“I think that statement is reflective of where he is in life, and an opinion. I don't think any musical genre will ever be dead, as long as someone has passion about what they're doing in it.”
“Life lasts but a few scratches of the claw in the sand.”
“I accepted a change in my life. I didn't choose that change and those are the best changes to make.”
“Get a life. What have you done with yourselves?”
“It's a nice glass of champagne at the end of a life.”
“In scorn of nature, art gave lifeless life.”
“I can only wait for the final amnesia, the one that can erase an entire life.”
“I like someone who embraces life; who wants to be on a long journey but has no particular plan or destination in mind. An adventurous man, open to the concept of living life in the moment.”
“If it's the last game you'd ever want to see in your life, it might be these two teams, and that makes it special. Two great football states, two great schools, two of the largest alumni in the world. The interest level is tremendous.”
“No not really, it is just like real life. Not everyday you are happy and not everyday you are sad.”
“Most of life is choices, and the rest is pure dumb luck.”
“Whatever you're going through in your life, don't ever give up.”
“In real life, there are names that surprise us because they don't seem to suit the person at all.”
“My overriding memory of childhood is having the freedom to decide which way to go in life and having my parents' support.”
“Golf is a lot like life. When you make a decision, stick with it.”
“Like a lot of people who get into coaching, I was impacted by the people in my life. Certainly my father (John) who coached me in youth league baseball, and my high school coach, Joe Moore, were mentors and major influences.”
“There are no mistakes in life, there are only lessons to be learned: Adivce to the Youth.”
“If you must commit suicide... always contrive to do it as decorously as possible; the decencies, whether of life or of death, should never be lost sight of.”
“For the atom's soul is nothing but energy. Spirit blazes in the dullest of clay. The life of every woman or man - the heart of it - is pure and holy joy.”
“If you want to run, then run a mile. If you want to experience another life, run a marathon.”
“I have a weird life because I live on songwriting royalties, which are a strange income. Sometimes it rains, sometimes it doesn't.”
“There are only two sorts of people in life you can trust -- good Christians and good Communists.”
“Inadequate compensation seriously compromises the judicial independence fostered by life tenure. That low salaries might force judges to return to the private sector rather than stay on the bench risks affecting judicial performance. . . . Every time an experienced judge leaves the bench, the nation suffers temporary loss in judicial productivity. Diminishing judicial salaries affects not only those who have become judges but also the pool of those willing to be considered for a position on the federal bench.”
“Life isn't all haha hehe.”
“It takes a real storm in the average person's life to make him realize how much worrying he has done over the squalls.”
“I feel like I have a new life and I'm going to take full advantage of it.”
“A novel is not just a work of art: It is somehow a work of life as well.”
“Life would be stale if there were no trials and difficulties. It is these difficulties which bring out the human values in man.”
“who knows what life is, for life is a secret”
“Life has to be lived through, for the sake of the chance to unfold the virtues.Otherwise, man is a burden upon the earth, a consumer of food.”
“Desire is the worst enemy; it ruins many a human life. Desire when fulfilled breeds further desire.”
“My birthday wish: I hope that Filipinos will have a prosperous, peaceful life.”
“Love towards all beings. The founders always had in view the Unity of all life and the progressive march of man towards Divinity.”
“Our job is to bring the dead facts to life.”
“The present joys of life we doubly taste by looking back with pleasure on the past”
“Many a man who pays rent all his life owns his own home; and many a family has successfully saved for a home only to find itself at last with nothing but a house.”
“When the blandishments of life are gone, the coward creeps to death - the brave lives on”
“We will often find compensation if we think more of what life has given us and less about what life has taken away.”
“On the whole, audiences prefer that art be not a mirror held up to life, but a Disneyland of the soul, containing Romanceland, Spyland, Pornoland and all the other escapelands which are so much more agreeable than the complex truth”
“Wise people, even though all laws were abolished, would still lead the same life.”
“The awful importance of this life is that it determines eternity.”
“What you think means more than anything else in your life. More than what you earn, more than where you live, more than your social position, and more than what anyone else may think about you.”
“Perhaps the most lasting pleasure in life is the pleasure of not going to church.”
“Less disappointing than life, great works of art do not begin by giving us all their best”
“I could field as long as I can remember, but hitting has been a struggle all my life.”
“My life has been unusual. I was born to unusual circumstances, but I'm surviving and going through crap just like anybody else. Sure, it might be on a different level and maybe in a different way, but my life is the same as anybody's. When people look at any life under a microscope, it might seem terrible, but I've met people with worse stories.”
“Scientology is an encyclopaedia for life. It's non-denominational, it doesn't judge, it's a lot about self-discovery, and it helped me so much for one reason: it works. It helped me through my drugs, and it helps me still. It's my main anchor in life.”
“I really went back through a lot of the dark corridors of my life in this. I wanted people to know who I am based on my music, not on what they read in the tabloids.”
“It started a whole new chapter in my life to discover my father was gay, ... I think it's very hard to discover that everything you thought you knew up to the age of 14 is out the window.”
“One of the greatest men to ever walk this land was Dr. Martin Luther King,Jr. His life exemplified unity by bringing people together for the good of all. In any small way I hope to someday bring people together like Dr. King.”
“A fool is a man who never tried an experiment in his life.”
“O mortal, you came here to earn a profit. What useless activities are you attached to? Your life-night is coming to its end.”
“Death is the great hope of all life; the desire to expend itself; to be used and consumed by its own longing for itself.”
“My breath of life is in Your Power, God; my soul and body are totally Yours.”
“I ask you to stand by my side in the next five years. We shall live a good life in a Romania of all Romanians.”
“Few things in life are less efficient than a group of people trying to write a sentence. The advantage of this method is that you end up with something for which you will not be personally blamed.”
“Total absence of humor renders life impossible.”
“I am convinced that life is 10% what happens to me and 96% how I react to it.”
“Society is like a large piece of frozen water; and skating well is the great art o social life.”
“Without egotism and full of feeling, laughter is the music of life.”
“A certain recluse, I know not who, once said that no bonds attached him to this life, and the only thing he would regret leaving was the sky”
“I dare you, boys and girls, to make life obey you, not you it. It is only a shallow dare to do the foolish things. I dare you to do the uplifting, courageous things.”
“The actor becomes an emotional athlete. The process is painful -- my personal life suffers.”
“Being a writer is like having homework every night for the rest of your life.”
“Life is not recognized by living as much as it is by giving.”
“Literature is mostly about having sex and not much about having children; life is the other way round.”
“Vote with your life; vote yes!”
“American Life.”
“Gwyneth, Stella and Chris composed a song together, which was brilliant - a spoof on American Life, except they called it American Wife,”
“I've made out more this season on a family-friendly show than ever in my actual life.”
“Never let anyone tell you how to live your life.
”
“See, it has nothing to do with how hard you work at all. Life has to do with which ass you kiss.
”
“A religious life is a struggle and not a hymn”
“No day of my life passes without someone saying the words 'Monty Python' to me. It's not bad.”
“I mean, I'm 48 years old and I've been through a lot in my life - you know, loss, whether it be death, illness, separation. I mean, the failed expectations... We all have dreams.”
“Words that are saturated with lies or atrocity, do not easily resume life.”
“I live a non-journalist's life. I look for the texture of ordinary things”
“He is dreadfully married. He's the most married man I ever saw in my life”
“To acquire the habit of reading is to construct for yourself a refuge from almost all the miseries of life.”
“Were art to redeem man, it could do so only by saving him from the seriousness of life and restoring him to an unexpected boyishness.”
“You can have peace of mind, improved health and an ever-increasing flow of energy. Life can be full of joy and satisfaction.”
“Part of the happiness of life consists not in fighting battles, but in avoiding them. A masterly retreat is in itself a victory.”
“I knocked part of my tooth out with a scrubbing brush on stage whilst singing 'Hard Knock Life' in Annie.”
“The truth is always exciting. Speak it, then. Life is dull without it.”
“If our American way of life fails the child, it fails us all.”
“Having money isn't the answer but it makes your life a hell of a lot nicer. If you have the choice to have money or not have money, pick having money,”
“I've had a fairy tale life. I had a perfect family, a beautiful childhood, an incredible upbringing. I lived a lot of life but a lot of good life... But in the last few years, losing my father, going through a divorce and not getting some jobs I really wanted, is making me a much more interesting person, I think... This all really does feel like a rebirth, a new chapter.”
“The belief that youth is the happiest time of life is founded on a fallacy. The happiest person is the person who thinks the most interesting thoughts, and we grow happier as we grow older.”
“Good temper is an estate for life”
“Est sularus oth mithas [My honor is my life].”
“My own luck has been curious all my literary life; I never could tell a lie that anyone would doubt, not a truth that anybody would believe.”
“Man's loneliness is but his fear of life.”
“I will not surrender responsibility for my life and my actions.”
“There were 22 interventions during that little girl's six years of life, and none of it prevented her death. I think the system was not functioning in those days.”
“Definition of a victim: a person to whom life happens.”
“Everyman's life lies within the present, for the past is spent and done with, and the future is uncertain”
“They that mistake life's accessories for life itself are like them that go too fast in a maze: their very haste confuses them”
“There is just one life for each of us: our own.”
“Christian civilization is the greatest that the world has ever known because it rests on a conception of life that makes life one unending progress toward higher things, with no limit to advancement or development.”
“To be always fortunate, and to pass through life with a soul that has never known sorrow, is to be ignorant of one half of nature.”
“This is a passion I work on seven days a week, ... I'm in this for life.”
“When you express your gratitude, you will bring joy to others’ lives.
When others know joy, your life will be filled with happiness.”
“Shall Life renew these bodies? Of a truth
All death will he annul, all tears assuage?
Or fill these void veins full again with youth
And wash with an immortal water age?”
“There's so much else to do in the world. To just be interested in doing films would limit my life.”
“Everything we feel is made of Time. All the beauties of life are shaped by it.”
“I think school is so much harder than real life. People are so much more accepting when they are adults.”
“How many inner resources one needs to tolerate a life of leisure without fatigue”
“I desire to gain your Love and Friendship by a kind, Just and Peaceful Life.”
“Death then, being the way and condition of life, we cannot love to live if we cannot bear to die”
“Perhaps, as some wit remarked, the best proof that there is Intelligent Life in Outer Space is the fact it hasn't come here. Well, it can't hide forever -- one day we will overhear it.”
“To live life well is to express life poorly; if one expresses life too well, one is living it no longer.”
“I'm getting married because I'm in love with a girl and want to spend my life with her. You can't live your life doing what other people want you to or you'll be miserable. At some point you just have to be yourself.”
“When you understand what you see, you will no longer be children. You will know that life is pain, that each of us hangs always upon the cross of himself. And when you know that this is true of every man, woman and child on earth, you will be wiser.”
“Let each man think himself an act of God, His mind a thought, his life a breath of God; And let each try, by great thoughts and good deeds, To show the most of Heaven he hath in him”
“A little alarm now and then keeps life from stagnation.”
“There is an immutable conflict at work in life and in business, a constant battle between peace and chaos. Neither can be mastered, but both can be influenced. How you go about that is the key to success.”
“Right now, I miss her. I really miss my angel. That's what's keeping me going right now. Putting my life together so I can be with her.”
“If we value so highly the dignity of life, how can we not also value the dignity of death? No death may be called futile.”
“I believe half the unhappiness in life comes from people afraid to go straight at things”
“Do you realize that you can't play the game of life with sweaty palms?”
“I'll go through life either first class or third, but never in second.”
“Fear not that thy life shall come to an end, but rather that it shall never have a beginning.”
“What I'm doing here is seeking to offer protection from life, solely through the means of potato, butter and cream... there are times when only mashed potato will do.”
“But life is a great school. It thrashes and bangs and teaches you.”
“I have this theory of life that there are four popular people in high school and then there are the rest of us. I write movies for the rest of us who never peaked in high school. For the people that did peak in high school and then realized later that it's all downhill, welcome to the movie as well.”
“Exeter was, I suspect, more crucial in my life than in the lives of most members of my class, and conceivably, than in the lives of almost anyone else who ever attended the school.”
“Ketchup left overnight on dinner plates has a longer half-life than radioactive waste.”
“The hour which gives us life begins to take it away.”
“Only what we have wrought into our character during life can we take with us”
“The happiness of life is made up of minute fractions - the little, soon forgotten charities of a kiss or a smile, a kind look or heartfelt compliment.”
“Our whole life revolved around the church, so that the only time I had a break from all that was when I would escape into the piano, ... So I created this whole other world that they couldn't get into.”
“The individual who is habitually tardy in meeting and appointment, will never be respected or successful in life”
“An evil life is a kind of death.”
“Pain is such an important thing in life. I think that as an artist you have to experience suffering.”
“Unrest of spirit is a mark of life”
“'Little Earthquakes,' in truth, was much more like a diary form of things that have happened in my whole life, finding my own voice. This is the record where I declaim my own fire, instead of stealing from the men in my life, which I've done in the past.”
“If you were happy every day of your life you wouldn't be a human being, you'd be a game show host.”
“Sex and beauty are inseparable, like life and consciousness. And the intelligence which goes with sex and beauty, and arises out of sex and beauty, is intuition.”
“There's a balance in my life, there's reality and there's the part that looks really glamorous, but we're all just people in the end.”
“Well, you know, it's interesting being 50, ... You start to reflect on your life. And you look back over the years at everything you've ever done. And, with age, middle age, comes wisdom. But I have to say that I'm not sure that 50 for me is the same as 50 in people years.”
“I have had strange animals as pets all my life. I was shy growing up, and shy people tend to interact better with animals than people. Animals are direct, not duplicitous.”
“Life changes every Friday here”
“Life is too short to think small.”
“Seek not, my soul, the life of the immortals; but enjoy to the full the resources that are within thy reach.”
“Blame someone else and get on with your life”
“If I could wish for my life to be perfect, it would be tempting but I would have to decline, for life would no longer teach me anything.”
“Office life taught me to be tolerant, lazy and a good gossip.”
“It is a law of life that problems arise when conditions are there for their solution.”
“There is no history of mankind, there are only many histories of all kinds of aspects of human life. And one of these is the history of political power. This is elevated into the history of the world.”
“The world is wide, and I will not waste my life in friction when it could be turned into momentum.”
“Just one step could change your life forever.”
“My whole life is a practical joke, ... Every evening and every show has really become about entertaining me. I was always like that. And now I've come full circle because that's what the TV show is too.”
“Is not a patron, my lord, one who looks with unconcern on a man struggling for life in the water, and when he has reached ground, encumbers him with help?”
“All that's left now is purely poetic work, putting more life into individual places, as I've made so sure of the fundamental mood and dimension of expression that it won't leave me groping around in uncertainty any more.”
“The only end of writing is to enable readers better to enjoy life or better to endue it.”
“I have, all my life long, been lying till noon; yet I tell all young men, and tell them with great sincerity, that nobody who does not rise early will ever do any good”
“Life cannot subsist in society but by reciprocal concessions.”
“I inherited a vile melancholy from my father, which has made me mad all my life, at least not sober”
“I feel that I have such an abundance in my life, and once you've seen how many people suffer and how little it takes for you to actually change their lives for the better, it's hard not to do something.”
“The love of life is necessary to the vigorous prosecution of any undertaking”
“I think there is something for all of us where you find a balance in your life, where you feel that everything you do isn't about your own creature comforts or satisfying your own appetites. Some of it has to be directed outward and there is a huge satisfaction in that.”
“Lawyers know life practically. A bookish man should always have them to converse with.”
“The arguments for purity of life fail of their due influence, not because they have been considered and confuted, but because they have been passed over without consideration”
“Two kinds of men generally best succeed in political life; men of no principle, but of great talent; and men of no talent, but of one principle - that of obedience to their superiors.”
“The ordinary politician has a very low estimate of human nature. In his daily life he comes into contact chiefly with persons who want to get something or to avoid something.”
“We love death. The US loves life. That is the difference between us two.”
“There's many a life of sweet content, whose virtue is environment”
“What should I say about life? That it's long and abhors transparence.”
“Life on the planet is born of woman.”
“Make it a life-rule to give your best to whatever passes through your hands. Stamp it with your manhood. Let superiority be your trademark.”
“We lift ourselves by our thought. We climb upon our vision of ourselves. If you want to enlarge your life, you must first enlarge your thought of it and of yourself. Hold the ideal of yourself as you long to be, always everywhere.”
“The only real failure in life is one not learned from.”
“Life is meant to be enjoyed, not endured.”
“Painting completed my life.”
“Life isn't a science. We make it up as we go.”
“If we are strong, and have faith in life and its richness of surprises, and hold the rudder steadily in our hands. I am sure we will sail into quiet and pleasent waters for our old age.”
“There are two great rules in life, the one general and the other particular. The first is that every one can in the end get what he wants if he only tries. This is the general rule. The particular rule is that every individual is more or less of an exception to the rule.”
“Is life worth living? This is a question for an embryo not for a man.”
“Tomorrow or next life - which comes first, we will never know”
“Success in life comes not from having the right cards, but from playing bad ones properly”
“It is our less conscious thoughts and our less conscious actions which mainly mould our lives and the lives of those who spring from us.”
“Most people have never learned that one of the main aims in life is to enjoy it.”
“The construction of life is at present in the power of facts far more than convictions.”
“Life is just a bowl of cherries.”
“Into every life a little rain must fall”
“In the midst of life we are in death”
“If life deals you lemons made lemonade”
“Like ultraviolet rays memory shows to each man in the book of life a script that invisibly and prophetically glosses the text.”
“The question is not... if art is enough to fulfill my life, but if I am true to the path I have set for myself, if I am the best I can be in the things I do. Am I living up to the reasons I became a singer in the first place?”
“Who knew that life would move this fast, who knew i'd have to look at you though a glass.”
“You Light Up My Life.”
“Man, unlike animals, has never learned that the sole purpose in life is to enjoy it”
“Everything in life that we really accept undergoes a change”
“Life never becomes a habit to me. It's always a marvel.”
“I have been able to follow my death step by step and now my life goes gently to its end.”
“He alone is wise who can accommodate himself to all contingencies of life; but the fool contends, and struggles like a swimmer against the stream.”
“[Life means] giving as much of yourself as you have to give.”
“The bravest thing I ever did was continuing my life when I wanted to die.”
“A man left gold; another took it; left a noose, So the first hanged himself; having but life to lose”
“You are outside life, you are above life, you have miseries which the ordinary man does not know, you exceed the normal level, and it is for this that men refuse to forgive you, you poison their peace of mind, you undermine their stability. You have irrepressible pains whose essence is to be inadaptable to any known state, indescribable in words. You have repeated and shifting pains, incurable pains, pains beyond imagining, pains which are neither of the body nor of the soul, but which partake of both. And I share your suffering, and I ask you: who dares to ration our relief? We are not going to kill ourselves just yet. In the meantime, leave us the hell alone.”
“They had both noticed that a life of dissipation sometimes gave to a face the look of gaunt suffering spirituality that a life of asceticism was supposed to give and quite often did not.”
“Life devoid of struggles is a life bereft of happiness because the value of happiness is realized only after pain.”
“My father had a real short fuse. He had a really tough life - had to support his mother and brothers at a very young age when his dad's farm collapsed. You could see his suffering, his terrible suffering, living a life that was disappointing and looking for another one. It was past frustration; it was anger.”
“Within ourselves is not very far and yet it is so far that one's whole life is not always long enough to get there.”
“Life has been compared with a battle and rightly so, as each day comes up with a new set of challenges which we must meet. One can just not shy away from the problems if he has to survive. He has to meet to challenges with courage.”
“Love is the substance of all life. Everything is connected in love, absolutely everything.”
“Life is a creative endeavor. It is active, not passive. We are the yeast that leavens our lives into rich, fully baked loaves. When we experience our lives as flat and lackluster, it is our consciousness that is at fault. We hold the inner key that turns our lives from thankless to fruitful. That key is "Blessing."”
“It's an excellent life. I'm rich. I'm happy. I have a great job. I travel hither and yon to fabulous places. I'm surrounded by wonderful, interesting people. I live a privileged life -- hugely privileged.... It would be absurd to pretend that it's anything different.”
“When you turn 50, you realize that the better part of your life is past, ... Mothers usually don't get to spend five weeks with their 21-year-old son. We drove all over the place.”
“My songs form a kind of biography or diary of my life as they are about people I have loved and people I only knew in my heart, places I have seen only for a moment and places I have lived all my life.”
“If you focus on the statistics, that's the worst thing you can do in your life as a baseball player,”
“If you make love with the divine now, in the next life
you will have the face of satisfied desire.”
“I'm not a bitch in real life.”
“If I have any worth, it is to live my life for God so as to teach these peoples; even though some of them still look down on me.”
“This is a pretty high-priced policy. It depends how nervous you are about life. A wedding can get canceled -- as the death of J.F.K. (John F. Kennedy) Jr. proved -- but those things don't happen every day.”
“I exhort you also to take part in the great combat, which is the combat of life, and greater than every other earthly conflict.”
“There are some movies that I would like to forget, for the rest of my life. But even those movies teach me things.”
“This is a pretty high-priced policy, ... It depends how nervous you are about life. A wedding can get canceled -- as the death of J.F.K. (John F. Kennedy) Jr. proved -- but those things don't happen every day.”
“In human life there is constant change of fortune; and it is unreasonable to expect an exemption from the common fate. Life itself decays, and all things are daily changing.”
“A woman's life can really be a succession of lives, each revolving around some emotionally compelling situation or challenge, and each marked off by some intense experience.”
“Our being is subject to all the chances of life. There are so many things we are capable of, that we could be or do. The potentialities are so great that we never, any of us, are more than one-fourth fulfilled.”
“I learned a lot about basketball. I learned more about life.”
“The simple idea that everyone needs a reasonable amount of challenging work in his or her life, and also a personal life, complete with noncompetitive leisure, has never really taken hold.”
“worst day of my life.”
“The invention of the teenager was a mistake. Once you identify a period of life in which people get to stay out late but don't have to pay taxes - naturally, nobody wants to live any other way.”
“I have always had a dread of becoming a passenger in life.”
“If you want to become the best runner you can be, start now. Don't spend the rest of your life wondering if you can do it.”
“I don't have any more tears. I don't cry anymore. I just thank God that I have a life and the material things hopefully we'll get them back again,”
“The genuine artist is never ''true to life'.' He sees what is real, but not as we are normally aware of it. We do not go storming through life like actors in a play. Art is never real life.”
“Everything is complicated; if that were not so, life and poetry and everything else would be a bore.”
“I've never thought of my characters as being sad. On the contrary, they are full of life. They didn't choose tragedy. Tragedy chose them.”
“Love isn't everything in life”
“People tend to think that life really does progress for everyone eventually, that people progress, but actually only some people progress. The rest of the people don't.”
“What our eyes behold may well be the text of life but one's meditations on the text and the disclosures of these meditations are no less a part of the structure of reality.”
“This can't be life.”
“Life is a school of probability”
“It's been certainly more than a job, it's been giving me a charmed life, ... If I could've dreamt what the outcome of my career would've been when I'd auditioned 20 years ago, you know, I would have never believed it. It's just given me the greatest blessings and gifts and rewards and challenges. It's really been quite a trip.”
“Too late is tomorrow's life; live for today.”
“We come and cry and that is life, we cry and go and that is death.”
“Ever since dying came into fashion, life hasn't been safe.”
“There are men I could spend eternity with. but not this life.”
“Life is easier than you'd think; all that is necessary is to accept the impossible, do without the indispensable, and bear the intolerable.”
“Life is what you make it.”
“I can't imagine a person becoming a success who doesn't give this game of life everything he's got.”
“I have loved eight women in my life. I remember every woman's face.”
“He has spent his life best who has enjoyed it most.”
“The only living works are those which have drained much of the author's own life into them.”
“You can know what's in your life when you know what's in your heart.”
“Life is short, but its ills make it seem long”
“Nobody ever seems to remember life is a game we play.”
“Human life is as evanescent as the morning dew or a flash of lightning.”
“changed the trajectory of my life and the lives of so many other people in the world.”
“Mattie lived the biggest, greatest life of anyone I've ever known. He lived his life with the light of love, and each of us has the power to do that in our own way.”
“A bachelor's life is no life for a single man.”
“Difficult is the life of mortals.”
“I'm of the opinion that life doesn't always tie up neatly at the end of the episode.”
“Philosophers ruin language, poets ruin logic, but with human reasoning alone man will never make it through life.”
“It's so easy to forget what's important in life,”
“Movies like that aren't about the visual effects and explosions, ... They're human stories about family, about life, about death.”
“Human cloning is the deliberate creation of a human life for utilitarian purposes. That life is created simply for research or for the benefit of another. Any time in history when we have subjected one class of human beings to enslavement by another class has been wrong.”
“The grocery store is the great equalizer where mankind comes to grips with the facts of life like toilet tissue”
“I would live all my life in nonchalance and insouciance, Were it not for making a living, which is rather a nouciance.”
“We cannot tell what may happen to us in the strange medley of life. But we can decide what happens in us -- how we can take it, what we do with it -- and that is what really counts in the end. How to take the raw stuff of life and make it a thing of worth and beauty -- that is the test of living.”
“The People have a right to the Truth as they have a right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.”
“Everyone is naked. Everyone wants to hide. But life is sweet. Let it go on.”
“The further through life I drift the more obvious it becomes that I am lacking in thrift.”
“There is, indeed, nothing that so much seduces reason from vigilance, as the thought of passing life with an amiable woman.”
“For him light labor spread her wholesome store, Just gave what life required, but gave no more: His best companions, innocence and health; And his best riches, ignorance of wealth”
“What we want is to improve the quality of life for everybody. We want to improve the standard of living. And the way we do that is by providing good-paying jobs, secure jobs, so that we know the companies are going to prosper and do well here and help expand our economy.”
“As wounded men may limp through life, so our war minds may not regain the balance of their thoughts for decades”
“But to us, probability is the very guide of life”
“Nobody can describe a fool to the life, without much patient self-inspection”
“If a man does not make new acquaintances as he advances through life, he will soon find himself left alone. A man, sir, should keep his friendship in a constant repair.”
“Poetry is rather an approach to things, to life, than it is typographical production.”
“There is nothing left to me but honor, and my life, which is saved”
“I wished to go completely outside and to make a symbolic start for my enterprise of regenerating the life of humankind within the body of society and to prepare a positive future in this context.”
“I don't know how many times I can sit there and talk about my character or my life. It's interesting to talk about experiences in the context of something you're doing for somebody else, and particularly if you can persuade others to join you in your support.”
“To me, it was fun, ... To them, it was a life-and-death career thing.”
“Do not suffer life to stagnate; it will grow muddy for want of motion: commit yourself again to the current of the world”
“Look, this is about the real-life decisions of real-life Americans, who to vote for, what to buy, what to agree with, what to think, how to act. This is the way it is.”
“That life could have been saved. It would be dishonest of me if I remained silent.”
“The effect forever on the economic life of Africa is there.”
“Choose the life that is most useful, and habit will make it the most agreeable.”
“Art imitates life. Life imitates high school.”
“For me the most important thing in my life is love. I think you have to be in love with your family, with your job, with the people who work for you. If you are not in love with your wife you have to divorce. If you are not in love with your kids you are not a human being so you have to kill yourself, if you are not in love with your job you must change your job.”
“Surrealism: An archaic term. Formerly an art movement. No longer distinguishable from everyday life.”
“Consciousness is a phase of mental life which arises in connection with the formation of new habits. When habit is formed, consciousness only interferes to spoil our performance.”
“Public opinion, a vulgar, impertinent, anonymous tyrant who deliberately makes life unpleasant for anyone who is not content to be the average man”
“[I've never been] a political person in my life,”
“In Jesus' life from the Father, in the immediacy and closeness of his association with him in prayer and indeed face to face, he is God's witness, through whom the intangible has become tangible, the distant has drawn near.”
“It has been best week of my life. This has put the icing on it. I am so proud.”
“Life is a balance between rest and movement.”
“The worst fault of the working classes is telling their children they're not going to succeed, saying: ''There is life, but it's not for you.''”
“Don't choose. Accept life as it is in its totality.”
“Life is a great bundle of little things”
“Life is an end in itself, and the only question as to whether it is worth living is whether you have had enough of it.”
“My faith is the grand drama of my life. I'm a believer, so I sing words of God to those who have no faith.”
“What I hate most in life are people who are not really the peach of the day but who want to be young and sexy. You can fool nobody. There is a moment when you have to accept that somebody else is younger and fresher and hotter. Life is not a beauty contest.”
“When brothers agree, no fortress is so strong as their common life”
“The year 2005 was the first in my life when I did not write a single line.”
“The girl is not selling her private life, but her image,”
“That is very true for any walk of life and very true for my character in 'Prison Break' because he's a structural engineer. I did a little bit of reading about that. And structural engineering is the art and science of connectivity. The pieces of a building are all interdependent. My brother in the story is behind the wall and every brick in that wall represents the conspiracy that put him there. My job as his brother and as an engineer is to find that one brick and loosen it. And another and another and hopefully the whole thing will come down.”
“The important thing is to learn a lesson every time you lose. Life is a learning process and you have to try to learn what's best for you. Let me tell you, life is not fun when you're banging your head against a brick wall all the time.”
“Love is the basic need of human nature, for without it, life is disrupted emotionally, mentally, spiritually and physically”
“When I lose a match, I know that I lose on the court and not in life.”
“Very often, footage that you have shot develops its own dynamic, it's own life, that is totally unexpected, and moves away from you're original intentions. And you have to acknowledge, yes, there is a child growing and developing and moving in a direction that isn't expected-accept it as it is and let it develop its own life.”
“Change your life by changing yourself.”
“I may not hope from outward forms to win The passion and the life, whose fountains are within”
“A lot of life is dealing with your curse, dealing with the cards you were given that aren't so nice. Does it make you into a monster, or can you temper it in some way, or accept it and go in some other direction?”
“I've arrived at this outermost edge of my life by my own actions. Where I am is thoroughly unacceptable. Therefore, I must stop doing what I've been doing.”
“Acting is a life experience. I'm always learning things when I'm making a movie. So the fame part of it is fine when you consider what you get out of this job.”
“O Lady! we receive but what we give, And in our life alone does Nature live”
“Such is the state of life, that none are happy but by the anticipation of change; the change itself is nothing; when we have made it, the next wish is to change again”
“Plan out your life on paper but live your life by your heart”
“Much of the marble coldness of Hester's impression was to be attributed to the circumstance that her life had turned, in a great measure, from passion and feeling, to thought. Standing alone, as to any dependent on society, and with little Pearl to be guided and protected- alone, and hopeless of retrieving her position, even as she had not scorned to consider it desirable, she cast away the fragments of a broken chain.”
“To appreciate nonsense requires a serious interest in life.”
“Kids who are in school just visit life sometimes, and then they have to stop to do homework or go to sleep early or get to school on time. They're constantly reminded they are preparing "for real life," while being isolated from it.”
“The secret of a leader lies in the tests he has faced over the whole course of his life and the habit of action he develops in meeting those tests.”
“Care less for your harvest than for how it is shared and your life will have meaning and your heart will have peace.”
“I've never been bored in my life working. A lot of people get bored after five minutes. They want to go home and pick up their check. That's never been the case for me. I'm always the first to arrive and the last to leave because I truly enjoy what I'm doing. That's why I've been in show business for so long-I love it!”
“Taking charge of your own learning is a part of taking charge of your life, which is the sine qua non in becoming an integrated person”
“To be tested is good. The challenged life may be the best therapist.”
“Work! labor the asparagus me of life; the one great sacrament of humanity from which all other things flow - security, leisure, joy, art, literature, even divinity itself.”
“Going overseas is a vacation. There's so much going on at home. There's other things in our life, so we need to get that extreme focus back.”
“Life is based on your self-confidence. When you trust yourself, that means you know you can do things. If you don't have that trust, that means you're always going to have doubts in your mind.”
“At this point, I've got the confidence to know that I'll get through anything in my life given I have the motivation to do it, ... If it's an act of survival, we've all got a reason to keep living. It may not be pretty, but surviving is grit and determination in its highest form. I learned that I've got the capacity to do a hell of a lot more than I thought I could if I have the proper motivation.”
“To live this life, my friends, you have to have a genuine passion. Nothing artificial. To live this life, to love this life, you have to have a genuine passion. People think Kabir was so wonderful because he was uneducated and yet he said all these wonderful things. Do you think it would have been different had Kabir gone to Yale and Oxford? If so, you missed the point. The point isn't whether he was educated or not, because, in the truest sense, he was very educated. More educated than most people. The point is that passion. Maybe you won't be able to write like Kabir, but you can feel the same passion. Passion is the point. That love is the point. That feeling is the point. That is achievable by everyone sitting in this hall, and in the city of London, and on this planet Earth. That passion. That love. That awakening. That joy.”
“Life is very important to Americans.”
“This life that has been given to us as a gift, as such a precious gift. To really try to understand it, really try to recognize it, is the greatest meditation. Through the media of this Knowledge we can tap into our inner sources that are so beautiful.”
“The main dangers in this life are the people who want to change everything - or nothing.”
“It's called the mysterious rhythm of life, ... I can't quite account for it. It's probably an addiction, quite honestly. I need that shot of stage every two or three years.”
“We've had no joy at all. We're very, very frustrated at the moment but that's life. It's one of those things in football. It's not unusual and we'll just get on and work as hard as we can.”
“Financial instruments need to reflect the risk tolerance and life cycle people are in. Shop around before deciding where to place your savings.”
“Life is strewn with so many dangers, and can be the source of so many misfortunes, that death is not the greatest of them”
“I lead a pretty boring life. I once met an editor from the National Enquirer who said to me, almost apologetically, 'I'm sorry, but we're really not interested in you.' I'm afraid that's true.”
“Old man, look at my life. I'm a lot like you were,”
“The wise man realistically accepts as part of life and builds a philosophy to meet them and make the most of them. He lives on the principle of ''nothing attempted, nothing gained'' and is resolved that if he fails he is going to fail while trying to succeed.”
“It's always going to put the game into perspective. And it's always going to put life into perspective.”
“It was the most beautiful song I have ever heard in my life. I couldn't get enough of it.”
“Financial instruments need to reflect the risk tolerance and life cycle people are in. Shop around before deciding where to place your savings.”
“mirror that is an archetype of our own time and our own life.”
“With renunciation life begins.”
“The best part of one's life is the working part, the creative part. Believe me, I love to succeed... However, the real spiritual and emotional excitement is in the doing.”
“My first words was thug for life and papa pass the mack.”
“Life, its so great, but when we act like shit and do shit, then it aint. Why should we act like that in our society when we dont need to, have to... or do you want to?”
“How many caskets can we witness
Before we see it's hard to live
This life without God, so we must ask forgiveness.”
“There are long quiet periods in life that are very much like waiting for a bus on a nice day. You don't mind being there so much because the weather is sunny and nice, and you're in no hurry. But after a while you start looking at your watch because there are more interesting things you could be doing, and it really is time the bus came.”
“Any judge who allows an adulterer with a live-in girlfriend to terminate the life of his wife should be impeached.”
“Sad is the lot, who, once at least in his life, had not been a poet”
“Life hasn't really gone back to normal yet, but then it never really was normal, because [after the wedding] we were getting ready for him to leave.”
“I am in absolutely the best shape of my life and ready to go. I am not nervous at all. Physically and mentally, I have never felt better.”
“I love sport because I love life, and sport is one of the basic joys of life.”
“Look well to this day, for it is life, the very life of life. In it lies all the realities and verities of existence: the bliss of growth, the glory of action, splendor of beauty. For yesterday is but a dream, and tomorrow only a vision. But today well lived makes every yesterday a dream of happiness and every tomorrow a vision of hope. Look well, therefore, to this day, for it and it alone is life! Such is the salutation of the dawn.”
“A coward like this deserves to have his life prolonged”
“All human life is here, but the Holy Ghost seems to be somewhere else.”
“Wisdom does not show itself so much in precept as in life - in firmness of mind and a mastery of appetite. It teaches us to do as well as to talk; and to make our words and actions all of a color.”
“It is while you are patiently toiling at the little tasks of life that the meaning and shape of the great whole of life dawn on you.”
“Most men ebb and flow in wretchedness between the fear of death and the hardship of life; they are unwilling to live, and yet they do not know how to die.”
“I persist on praising not the life I lead, but that which I ought to lead. I follow it at a mighty distance, crawling”
“I'm pretty emotional, ... Athletics has been my life, my passion.”
“Life is warfare.”
“Anyone can stop a man's life, but no one his death; a thousand doors open on to it”
“If your descent is from heroic sires, show in your life a remnant of their fires.”
“It's tough when something that's been a part of your life is over. It's hard. (Sam) was the guy I saw right away. He's been my best friend and my best coach. So I wanted to go over and give him a hug.”
“JLo-so karen hows married life?
Karen-well it only lasted 20 minutes
JLo-Oh is that short?”
“You need to claim the events of your life to make yourself yours. When you truly possess all that you have been and done, which may take some time, you are fierce with reality.”
“What is laid down, ordered, factual is never enough to embrace the whole truth: life always spills over the rim of every cup.”
“Every day of your life is a page of your history”
“Death is not more certainly a separation of our souls from our bodies than the Christian life is a separation of our souls from worldly tempers, vain indulgences, and unnecessary cares.”
“I'm planning a whole new life, ... It's an opportunity knocking for me out here.”
“I hope that my achievements in life shall be these - that I will have fought for what was right and fair, that I will have risked for that which mattered, and that I will have given help to those who were in need, that I will have left the earth a better place for what I've done and who I've been.”
“Piety requires us to renounce no ways of life where we can act reasonably, and offers what we do to the glory of God.”
“The best things in life aren't things”
“Do not fear death... only the unlived life.
You don't have to live forever;
You just have to live.”
“He that considers how soon he must close his life will find nothing of so much importance as to close it well; and will, therefore, look with indifference upon whatever is useless to that purpose”
“Our hour is marked, and no one can claim a moment of life beyond what fate has predestined”
“The game of life is a game of boomerangs. Our thoughts, deeds and words return to us sooner or later with astounding accuracy.”
“Then it's back to normal life, maybe breathe, and take a vacation. Then start planning for next season.”
“I'm a minor player in my own life story.”
“It's never too late - in fiction or in life to revise”
“We must recognize that we're all part of a web of life around the world. Anytime you extinguish a species, the consequences are serious.”
“If you should go skating On the thin ice of modern life Dragging behind you the silent reproach Of a million tear-stained eyes Don't be surprised when a crack in the ice Appears under your feet. You slip out of your depth and out of your mind With your fear flowing out behind you As you claw the thin ice.”
“I'd like my life to be like a Bruce Springsteen song. Just once. I know I'm not born to run, I know that Seven Sisters' Road is nothing like Thunder Road, but feelings can't be different, can they?”
“To decide to be at the level of choice, is to take responsibility for your life and to be in control of your life.”
“Everything that happened to me as a child involved music. It was part of everyday life, as automatic as breathing.”
“At the end of the day, whether or not those people are comfortable with how you're living your life doesn't matter. What matters is whether you're comfortable with it.”
“No skill shapes a child's future success in school or in life more than the ability to read.”
“Family makes me feel there's a reason I'm alive... I'm feeling my life, which I didn't always do partly because I'd be drunk a lot.”
“I am going where life is more like life than it is here.”
“I have found life an enjoyable, enchanting, active, and sometime terrifying experience, and I've enjoyed it completely. A lament in one ear, maybe, but always a song in the other.”
“Real frontier-busting math explores new worlds, ... If you can communicate that experience, somewhere between math and uncertainty, life experience provides the balance.”
“As you emphasize your life, you must localize and define it... you cannot do everything.”
“Sad is the day for any man when he becomes absolutely satisfied with the life he is living, the thoughts that he is thinking and the deeds that he is doing; when there ceases to be forever beating at the doors of his soul a desire to do something lar”
“The ideal life is in our blood and never will be still. Sad will be the day for any man when he becomes contented with the thoughts he is thinking and the deeds he is doing - where there is not forever beating at the doors of his soul some great desire to do something larger; which he knows he was meant and made to do.”
“When I can look at Life with eyes, Grown calm and very coldly wise; Life will have given me the Truth, And taken in exchange - my youth”
“One who does not understand the weight of life does not deserve to be a swordsman.”
“Life is made up of marble and mud.”
“It is a paradoxical but profoundly true and important principle of life that the most likely way to reach a goal is to be aiming not at that goal itself but at some more ambitious goal beyond it.”
“Life is a frail moth flyingCaught in the web of the years that pass.”
“Only when a man's life comes to its end in prosperity dare we pronounce him happy”
“The dissenter is every human being at those moments of his life when he resigns momentarily from the herd and thinks for himself.”
“Whenever it is in any way possible, every boy and girl should choose as his life work some occupation which he should like to do anyhow, even if he did not need the money.”
“in the old days they didn't. They pulled their breeks back up and continued life. All very well if they did not have the squitters you might say, but you'd be wrong - in those smelly, nasally insensitive times they just pulled up their breeks and continued life ...”
“Contemplation is to knowledge what digestion is to food - the way to get life out of it”
“We cannot but feel uneasy about the losses caused by humanity themselves. Apart from the losses of life and property in destructive wars, the environment and natural resources are also being destroyed by human hands.”
“As to that leisure evening of life, I must say that I do not want it. I can conceive of no contentment of which toil is not to be the immediate parent.”
“I like the dynamics of life, ... I like it when it rains, and suddenly the sun comes out, and I like it when it's really silent and then a loud booming noise comes through. Or vice-versa.”
“All of us have a God in us, and that God is the spirit that unites all life, everything that is on this planet.”
“Once I understood Bach's music, I wanted to be a concert pianist. Bach made me dedicate my life to music, and it was that teacher who introduced me to his world.”
“We have learned to live in a world of mistakes and defective products as if they were necessary to life. It is time to adopt a new philosophy in America.”
“What a folly to dread the thought of throwing away life at once, and yet have no regard to throwing it away by parcels and piecemeal.”
“Success is the necessary misfortune of life, but it is only to the very unfortunate that is comes early.”
“I do think there are times in your life where you are able to believe those kinds of things”
“I've looked at life from both sides now/ From win and lose and still somehow/ It's life's illusions I recall/ I really don't know life at all.”
“Life will always be to a large extent what we ourselves make it.”
“So long as you are secure, you will count many friends; if your life becomes clouded you will be alone”
“The average regulation has a life span one-fifth as long as a chimpanzee's and one-tenth as long as a human's - but four times as long as the official's who created it.”
“Life is short, and it is up to you to make it sweet.”
“The great thing about The Simple Life is that it's a reality show but not based on my reality, ... It has nothing to do with my life or my home or my relationships or anything. I'm not open to anything like that.”
“We're gaining traction in the U.S. market. Wine is entering the mainstream of American life for the first time.”
“This [being a teen idol] is what I've waited for my whole life.”
“Want to do drugs, fine. You're out of my life!”
“The look on his face was something you see only a few times in your life, ... This horror grips you, becomes almost unimaginable in your ability to live with it. But that is our job, to live with the risk. This is the nature of people who hold lives in their hands.”
“Our brains are seventy-year clocks. The Angel of Life winds them up once for all, then closes the case, and gives the key into the hand of the Angel of the Resurrection.”
“Just as with other end-of-life decisions, you and your loved ones can plan for your funeral prior to your death.”
“Jazz is not just music, it's a way of life, it's a way of being, a way of thinking. . . . the new inventive phrases we make up to describe things -- all that to me is jazz just as much as the music we play.”
“Education is not solely about earning a great living. It means living a great life.”
“Life isn't a balance between throwing out and inviting in.”
“Growth is the only evidence of life.”
“We're all still good friends. We spent like 30 or 25 years of our life in the same office, ... Just because we don't play in the same band anymore doesn't mean we don't see each other and enjoy each other's company.”
“Life is too short to spend hoping that the perfectly arched eyebrow or hottest new lip shade will mask an ugly heart.”
“Death hath a thousand doors to let out life: I shall find one”
“I'm not the callow youth of yesteryear. I'm a man of steel, honed on the handle of life.”
“One of the stupidest theories of Western life.”
“I always say you've only got one life to live, and you're not promised a tomorrow. So, you might as well just have a good time with it.”
“Why should I let the toad work / Squat on my life?”
“The biggest mistake people make in life is not trying to make a living at doing what they most enjoy.”
“Euthanasia, of course, is the next round of that discussion, ... It's a lot more difficult because with euthanasia, the life wants to be taken. So you can't say, 'Poor fetus, nobody asked the fetus.' It's, 'Poor old guy, somebody asked him and he said, please do it.'”
“Few people have ever seriously wished to be exclusively rational. The good life which most desire is a life warmed by passions and touched with that ceremonial grace which is impossible without some affectionate loyalty to traditional form and ceremonies.”
“If I died right now, my life would be complete.”
“One must, in one's life, make a choice between boredom and suffering”
“I need a renewal of my life insurance policy, to tell you the truth. I just can't wait for this thing to be over so I can get out of here and hopefully not be hurt.”
“When you really think about it, I'm not delusional enough to think that what I do is important to life as we know it on this planet. No. But neither is what you do.”
“I find a welcome interest in the problems of everyday life. I find a humanity and a devotion to using thought to alleviate suffering.”
“And, to help society at large to understand that in the equation of life, fathers are of equal importance as mothers.”
“It was one of the most heartbreaking days of my life,”
“I tried to impact his life; I tried help to resurrect his life. In the end, he didn't follow the plan exactly how I wanted.”
“I'm at the point in my life where I'm telling myself I'm not doing that do my body no more. I'm 27 and you can't be going up and down like that because your body ain't gonna go with you next time.”
“It's all about quality of life and finding a happy balance between work and friends and family.”
“Give love, and love to your life will flow.”
“Life is too short to have anything but delusional notions about yourself.”
“To choose ways of not acting was ever the concern and scruple of my life.”
“Whether it's your personal life or career, people feel they have carte blanche to everything that goes on in your life. I don't agree with that, but I do feel I have to share my thoughts on those things with people instead of totally avoiding it. I want to put it out there the way I want to put it out there.”
“Watch As Good As It Gets, with Jack Nicholson and Helen Hunt. It shows how much better life can be when you let go of your mental comfort zones.”
“Hope is the most exciting thing there is in life.”
“If you're paid before you walk on the court, what's the point in playing as if your life depended on it?”
“A change in attitude can change your life!”
“Singing brings out in me what I can't normally bring out in everyday life. It's an incredible feeling to be able to bare your soul to people you've never met in a way that can make them understand so clearly what you mean. That's what I love most about singing ... it becomes my truest form of communication.”
“After all, it is hard to master both life and work equally well. So if you are bound to fake one of them, it had better be life.”
“This is the generation whose first cry of life was the Hungarian uprising.”
“You come to realize that life is short, and you have to step up. Don't feel sorry for me. Much is expected of those who are strong.”
“introduce yourself to, had life not done it for you.”
“As accidental as my life may be, or as that random humor is, which governs it, I know nothing, after all, so real or substantial as myself”
“Now the way of life that I preach is a habit to be acquired gradually by long and steady repetition. It is the practice of living for the day only, and for the day's work.”
“Clothe with life the weak intent, let me be the thing I meant”
“In Gujarat Hitler's life and works have been glorified in school textbooks which is a very serious matter,”
“I'm a very happy man. In everyday life, just walking around, I'm a fairly pleasant person to be around most of the time. Basically, I'm pretty mellow. Really, the only time I ever get upset is when I'm playing football. When things aren't going right or something, that's when I get the most upset.”
“Variability is the law of life, and as no two faces are the same, so no two bodies are alike, and no two individuals react alike and behave alike under the abnormal conditions which we know as disease.”
“We need international support so that our people live a life of normality, of dignity, of liberty and freedom. I hope that our cry for freedom may be heard.”
“Drought is a slow-motion disaster - it's a slow and creeping death for plant and animal life and potentially for the agricultural industry. Each day without rainfall deepens the crisis for the farm and ranch families of Texas.”
“Nothing in life is more wonderful than faith.”
“Only as far as a man is happily married to himself is he fit for married life and family life in general.”
“I've spent my whole life working in a medium that was regarded with contempt largely because of historical reasons.”
“Political work is the life-blood of all economic work.”
“A private Life is to be preferred; the Honor and Gain of publick Posts, bearing no proportion with the Comfort of it”
“It is the amends of a short and troublesome life, that doing good and suffering ill entitles man to a longer and better”
“The country life is to be preferred, for there we see the works of God; but in cities little else but the works of men. And the one makes a better subject for contemplation than the other.”
“Put your body--your life--in God's hands, ... You hold that ministry in your hand, (and) it's doomed. Place your life in his hand, and God will do miracles, because it all depends upon whose hand it's in.”
“Rob gave his life. He gave his full measure and I haven't seen anybody give as much to securing his killer as he did in life defending his country.”
“The truest end of life is to know that life never ends.”
“I think I was always Shannon before the cancer and after. But I think it makes me live life a lot different. I live each day as if it was my last because I was faced with a couple of times when I almost died. I don't take stuff hard, and I don't stress about the small stuff.”
“I want to live and work in Chicago for the rest of my life. You know when you were growing up and you wanted to become president? What I want now is to be mayor of this damned town in ten years.”
“I glorify God when I do my assignment. You have an assignment. ... There's a call of God upon your life. You are where you are on purpose. You must fulfill God's assignment, God's call on your life.”
“[June Carter Cash,] Keep on the Sunny Side -- Her Life in Music ... The Legend”
“Each of us has a spark of life inside us, and our highest endeavor ought to be to set off that spark in one another.”
“My life is so full of surprises, nothing surprises me any more.”
“the traditional view of the sanctity of human life will collapse under pressure from scientific, technological and demographic developments.”
“Your outlook upon life, your estimate of yourself, your estimate of your value are largely colored by your environment. Your whole career will be modified, shaped, molded by your surroundings, by the character of the people with whom you come in contact every day...”
“Therapy was the biggest romance of my life.”
“It is no wonder that people are so horrible when they start their life as children.”
“No person who is enthusiastic about his work has anything to fear from life”
“The scene is dull. Tell him to put more life into his dying.”
“Discrimination due to age is one of the great tragedies of modern life. The desire to work and be useful is what makes life worth living, and to be told your efforts are not needed because you are the wrong age is a crime.”
“'While there is life, there's hope,' he cried; 'Then why such haste?' so groaned and died”
“After this trip I know these kids went home with happy memories to last a life time.”
“Sometimes life gives us lessons sent in ridiculous packaging.”
“It's kind of art imitating life,”
“Life isn't a tiptoe through the tulips.”
“What we get from this adventure is just sheer joy. And joy is, after all, the end of life. We do not live to eat and make money.”
“It seems not to have been written. It is the quintessence of life. It is the basic truth.”
“Those who have never tried the experiment of a holy life measure the laws of God, not by their intrinsical goodness, but by the reluctancy and opposition which they find in their hearts”
“There's something so muffled about the way you experience things. It's as if you were trying to slip through life unchanged.”
“When you get to my age life seems little more than one long march to and from the lavatory.”
“Life is a bowl of cherries”
“I take a totally different approach to a lot of things now, school and my social life come before gym in a lot of ways, although I know that I still need to keep in shape, and stay healthy enough so that I can keep competing, and keep doing the shows, but it's not my whole life right now.”
“A happy childhood... is the worst possible preparation for life.”
“Disinterested intellectual curiosity is the life-blood of real civilization”
“If ever you should need my life, come and take it”
“I've never made the first move in my whole life - I'm too scared. I couldn't kiss someone first. I'm extremely shy. I'm, like, so shy that actually... it's very painful what I'm going to say, but I don't think I've ever been with someone I really loved, because the people I really cared for, I didn't have, you know, the nerve to go after.”
“Live all the days of your life”
“I'm a big believer in the fact that life is about preparation, preparation, preparation.”
“The most fatal illusion is the narrow point of view. Since life is growth and motion, a fixed point of view kills anybody who has one.”
“When Man evolved Pity, he did a queer thing -- deprived himself of the power of living life as it is without wishing it to become something different.”
“You are my heart, my life, my one and only thought.”
“Life is short, wear tropical shirts.”
“You should never blame the other woman, never. There is life after Kevin, and I'm living it!”
“She made it clear on the day she announced it. She commuted all death sentences to life imprisonment. Now the people are confused because of all the varieties added into it. But whatever it is, the government should implement the law.”
“Your biggest fantasy is walking away from the life (they think) you lead.”
“You can come to understand your purpose in life by slowing down and feeling your heart's desires.”
“Most modern reproducers of life, even including the camera, really repudiate it. We gulp down evil, choke at good.”
“My autobiography now offers me the chance to lay down my life story and place recent events in proper context, ... I have had a long and lumbering life -- this book will take time.”
“It's the greatest individual athletic achievement that's ever happened in my life.”
“All that schooling never prepares you for the reality of life.”
“If I've learned one thing in life, it's: Stand for something or you'll fall for anything.”
“Content is a word unknown to life; it is also a word unknown to man.”
“There comes a time in each life like a point of fulcrum. At that time you must accept yourself. It is not anymore what you will become. It is what you are and always will be.”
“I don't like to say I have given my life to art. I prefer to say art has given me my life.”
“I loved the Godfather. I thought that was the best interpretation of our life that I've ever seen. Godfather I and Godfather II-the other one stunk.”
“I think families are so great, because when you go home, no matter what you've accomplished in your life, you still are the person you were in sixth grade to them. You know, it never really changes.”
“Life is not merely being alive, but being well”
“Lucky that man whose children make his happiness in life and not his grief, the anguished disappointment of his hopes.”
“If you begin to live life looking for the God that is all around you, every moment becomes a prayer.”
“Good men make life a twofold span to last: Twice does he live who can enjoy his past”
“When thou art above measure angry, bethink thee how momentary is man's life.”
“The reinvention of daily life means marching off the edge of our maps.”
“Execute every act of life as though it were thy last”
“And thou wilt give thyself relief, if thou doest every act of thy life as if it were the last.”
“Your life is what your thoughts make it.”
“Knowledge the clue to life can give: Then wherefore hesitate to live”
“Music gives a soul to the universe, wings to the mind, flight to the imagination, and life to everything.”
“Surrender your life serenely, as serenely as the One who takes it from you”
“Remember that no man loses any other life than this which he now lives, nor lives any other than this which he now loses”
“Remember that very little is needed to make a happy life.”
“We are all, right now, living the life we choose.”
“The end of a picture is always an end of a life.”
“The importance of water and fire in the life of a man is unquestionable. For the very existence of Life both these elements i.e.water and heat, are essential. ”
“I think I write fiction for the opportunity to get beyond the limits of my own life.”
“A dirty mind is a terrible thing to waste.”
“My approach to life can't be summed up in a pithy quote, and if yours can, you're in trouble.”
“Snobbery exists in all areas of life, not least literary criticism. By snobbery I mean, any method of judging someone or something whereby you latch on to one or two features about them/it, and use these to come to a definitive, immovable judgement. In intellectual matters, the snob will often take the external features of a work as a guide to its value.”
“The ablest men in all walks of modern life are men of faith. Most of them have much more faith than they themselves realize.”
“Even life without drugs has gotta be better than this malarkey.”
“No man is quick enough to enjoy life”
“We think a happy life consists in tranquillity of mind.”
“The measure of life is not its duration, but its donation.”
“Without obsession, life is nothing.”
“Abstinence sows sand all over
The ruddy limbs & flaming hair,
But Desire Gratified
Plants fruits of life & beauty there.”
“Life is short, so enjoy it to the fullest.”
“Eventually, ... when you are making buying decisions as you're living your life, everything sort of becomes intuitive.”
“The long-term goal is to give these people the life of their choice. We provide the platform.”
“Life is true to form; records are meant to be broken.”
“Their destiny and where they want to be in life is not going to be a matter of chance ... it's really the choices they make, and they have to be committed to those choices.”
“I have been devoured all my life by an incurable and burning impatience: and to this day find all oratory, biography, operas, films, plays, books, and persons too long”
“Art can only be truly art by presenting an adequate outward symbol of some fact in the interior life.”
“If it all just happens like this for the rest of my life, it's going to be one endless Groundhog Day. I determined that I was not prepared to submit to this regime, so I thought I had to do something about it.”
“A pedestrian is a man in danger of his life. A walker is a man in possession of his soul.”
“Chief among our gains must be reckoned this possibility of choice, the recognition of many possible ways of life, where other civilizations give a satisfactory outlet to only one temperamental type, be he mystic or soldier, businessman or artist, a civilization in which there are many standards offers a possibility of satisfactory adjustment to individuals of many different temperamental types, of diverse gifts, and varying interests.”
“I want to be a champion for the people I have fought for all my life - regular people.”
“Life is something that happens to you while you're making other plans.”
“Leaders can express the values that hold the society together. Most important, they can conceive and articulate goals that life people out of their petty preoccupations, carry them above the conflicts that tear a society apart, and unite them in the pursuit of objectives worthy of their best efforts.”
“I feel that this life is sort of a penal colony. People have goofed or we wouldn't be here.”
“Life is a joke that's just begun.”
“The first thing which I can record concerning myself is, that I was born. These are wonderful words. This life, to which neither time nor eternity can bring diminution -- this everlasting living soul, began. My mind loses itself in these depths.”
“Is this the way of life that Islam teaches us? That we fight amongst ourselves and feel scared of fellow Muslims.”
“When we are grateful for the good we already have, we attract more good into our life. On the other hand, when we are ungrateful, we tend to shut ourselves off from the good we might otherwise experience.”
“Whose life is it anyway?”
“I ain't a bad person. I've never been in trouble my whole life, ... I was basically in tears almost.”
“Life has been compared to a race, but the allusion improves by observing, that the most swift are usually the least manageable and the most likely to stray from the course. Great abilities have always been less serviceable to the possessors than moderate ones.”
“I have been a depressed person most of m life. I was always in the throes of self-hatred.”
“One of the worst things that can happen in life is to win a bet on a horse at an early age.”
“the story of his life, the inexhaustible, the fairy, the Arabian Nights story.”
“Life should begin with age and its privileges and accumulations, and end with youth and its capacity to splendidly enjoy such advantages.”
“Life. People. Before, I used to take everything at face value. Because, when I say something, I mean it... so I used to feel that everybody else meant what they said. But of course that wasn't true. And life isn't that sweet and simple.”
“Greed probably figures in my intellectual life as well, as I attempt to absorb a massive amount of information with consequent mental indigestion.”
“I was sleeping. I was busy with my life, I was busy with my job ... until the day I had Dr. King's blood on my hands - literally.”
“When I finished school, I took my entire life savings - $5,000 - and invested it in a business. I was young. I was inexperienced. But I was an entrepreneur, and I was proud. And in six weeks, I was broke.”
“I want to talk with people who care about things that matter that will make a life-changing difference.”
“Life cannot be captured in a few axioms. And that is just what I keep trying to do. But it won't work, for life is full of endless nuances and cannot be captured in just a few formulae.”
“The breath of accusation kills an innocent name, and leaves for lame acquittal the poor life, which is a mask without it”
“What is REAL?' asked the Rabbit one day, 'Does it mean having things that buzz inside you and a stick-out handle?''Real isn't how you are made,' said the Skin Horse. 'It's a thing that happens to you. When a child loves you for a long, long time, not just to play with, but REALLY loves you, then you become Real.[...] 'Does it happen all at once, like being wound up,' he asked, 'or bit by bit?''It doesn't happen all at once,' said the Skin Horse. 'You become. It takes a long time. That's why it doesn't happen often to people who break easily, or have sharp edges, or who have to be carefully kept. Generally, by the time you are Real, most of your hair has been loved off, and your eyes drop out and you get loose joints and very shabby. But these things don't matter at all, because once you are Real you can't be ugly, except to the people who don't understand.”
“Obscenity, which is ever blasphemy against the divine beauty in life... is a monster for which the corruption of society forever brings forth new food, which it devours in secret.”
“When life knocks you to your knees, and it will, why, get up! If it knocks you to your knees again, as it will, well, isn't that the best position from which to pray?”
“For that's what a woman, a mother wants - to teach her children to take an interest in life. She knows it's safer for them to be interested in other people's happiness than to believe in their own.”
“This is a very dangerous and life-threatening storm.”
“Life is like a B-picture script! It is that corny. If I had my life story offered to me to film, I'd turn it down.”
“It's a terrible thing to go through life thinking that you have a rock on your side when you haven't.”
“I want to return the human race to the trees. People get a better perspective of their life and the world from up here.”
“I've always questioned death and birth and life, ... Where do we go? Are we here now? Or is this just one of the lives that we live? ... It just happened, it wasn't really planned, I swear. Everything fell into place.”
“I tried to make it as brutal as I could, ... I've been dying to make this movie my whole life, and I enjoyed every minute of it.”
“What makes life most difficult is the media intrusion, ... I think the public has gotten more and more greedy for the intimate details of their lives. These people are exposed to scrutiny 24 hours a day. We feel we have a right to know. We feel it's in the public interest. Even pop stars get more privacy. We just want to know every last detail. They are living in a goldfish bowl. And it never goes away.”
“The main focus in my life now is to open people's minds so no one will be so conceited that they think they have the total truth.”
“I probably weighted 200 pounds and decided it was time for a life change.”
“Enjoy your own life without comparing it with that of another.”
“There are countless studies on the negative spillover of job pressures on family life, but few on how job satisfaction enhances the quality of family life.”
“I had a horrible, horrible breakdown. It was just huge, like the worst period of my life, and it lasted for a couple of months.”
“Basically, I started singing when I started talking. Music has just been my saving grace my whole life.”
“If they want to say 'comeback,' that's cool, [but] I've been making music my whole life. ... I will make music forever.”
“People change, not necessarily in negative ways. Sometimes goals and intentions in life aren't aligned. It's just choices we make in life. Otherwise, why aren't we with the person we were with in seventh grade?”
“Life seems to be a choice between two wrong answers”
“(I want him to be sentenced to) life in prison. I don't want the death penalty. I want him to live to be an old man in prison and I want him to fear for his life every day, just as Julie feared for hers.”
“I think it's deeper than architecture. Design has taken on a new importance in life.”
“I fell in love with the thought that a human life could be a priestly conduit, a connecting link between earth and sky. As I grew and stumbled and, most important, as I began to love and be loved, I realized that the ultimate priest is the lover inside us”
“From forth the fatal loins of these two foes
A pair of star-crossed lovers take their life.”
“Nothing in his life became him like the leaving it”
“I believe in the supreme worth of the individual and in his right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.”
“Singleness of purpose is one of the chief essentials for success in life, no matter what may be one's aim.”
“If one good deed in all my life I did,
I do repent it from my very soul.”
“The only things in my life that compatibly exist with this grand universe are the creative works of the human spirit.”
“As from a bear a man would run for life, So fly I from her that would be my wife”
“We need to appreciate how precious life is.”
“The goal of the Christian life is not to save your soul but to transcend yourself, to vindicate the human struggle of which all of us are a part, to keep hope advancing.”
“Hyperbole was to Lyndon Johnson what oxygen is to life.”
“What has brought unique, irreplaceable me -- out of all the possibilities of life -- here, now, to this? Was all my youth -- the paper route after school, the stolen moments in the back seats of borrowed cars, the football workouts, the cramming for finals -- meant to end this way, dying in a muddy paddy?”
“There's nothing like the feeling of knowing that you've made a difference in someone's life, even if that differnce is a lifetime of nightmares and a fortune in therapy bills.”
“Every writer hopes or boldly assumes that his life is in some sense exemplary, that the particular will turn out to be universal.”
“Retirement's a major life event, and many people just don't think about it because they don't think they're ever going to do it. I know I didn't.”
“It's going to happen. You can't go on all your life and beat up on somebody. They're going to retaliate sometimes. They're a different team than what they were a few years back.”
“Life in the now, is gone tomorrow 
The only way to know is die 
Then to reveal its convenient lie.”
“People look at me and go, 'You must have it made. You have girls. You have a great life. It's not true. I mean you pull the curtain away, and you see I'm just as insecure and neurotic and scared and vulnerable as anybody, you know.”
“Getting started, keeping going, getting started again - in art and in life, it seems to me this is the essential rhythm not only of achievement but of survival, the ground of convinced action, the basis of self-esteem and the guarantee of credibility in your lives, credibility to yourselves as well as to others.”
“Cast a cold eye
On life, on death
Horseman, pass by!”
“An empty house is like a stray dog or a body from which life has departed.”
“I had plenty of life experience to draw from while working on this record, ... I was getting sane while the world was going crazy.”
“Though I still have no semblance of a life outside of Nine Inch Nails at the moment, I realize my goals have gone from getting a record deal or selling another record to being a better person, more well-rounded, . . . having friends, having a relationship with somebody.”
“No one is immune to the trials and tribulations of life.”
“Life without idealism is empty indeed. We just hope or starve to death.”
“I didn't know the full facts of life until I was 17. My father never talked about his work.”
“While the [Christian] faith takes care of the ultimate incongruities of life, humor does nicely with the intermediate ones.”
“Could you possibly have settled down to the old life and forgotten the fairyland through which you had passed? My child, I do not think so.”
“Nothing in life is as good as the marriage of true minds between man and woman. As good? It is life itself. ''”
“Sometimes I would almost rather have people take away years of my life than take away a moment”
“There's a period of life when we swallow a knowledge of ourselves and it becomes either good or sour inside.”
“life as we know it.”
“In the conduct of life we make use of deliberation to justify ourselves in doing what we want to do”
“It wasn't until late in life that I discovered how easy it is to say 'I don't know'”
“You express different energies at different times in your life.”
“Sometimes I wish life had a fast-forward button”
“I made up my mind long ago that life was too short to do anything for myself that I could pay others to do for me.”
“It's the simple things in life that are the most extraordinary; only wise men are able to understand them.”
“Habits in writing as in life are only useful if they are broken as soon as they cease to be advantageous.”
“I think that taking life seriously means something such as this: that whatever man does on this planet has to be done in the lived truth of the terror of creation, of the grotesque, of the rumble of panic underneath everything. Otherwise it is false. Whatever is achieved must be achieved with the full exercise of passion, of vision, of pain, of fear, and of sorrow. How do we know ... that our part of the meaning of the universe might not be a rhythm in sorrow?”
“Love life and life will love you back. Love people and they will love you back.”
“My own belief is that there is hardly anyone whose sexual life, if it were broadcast, would not fill the world at large with surprise and horror.”
“It gave me a chance to re-evaluate my life and my career. Cancer certainly gives things a new perspective. I would not have won the Tour de France if I had not had cancer. It gave me new strength and focus.”
“If life had a second edition, how I would correct the proofs”
“You happy beings, watch every face for those
you pass caught in the midst of life
by some horror, their souls gone dim, cursed
or unlucky, exiled under a stone.”
“Even when I'm sick and depressed, I love life.”
“Living with the immediacy of death helps you sort out your priorities in life. It helps you to live a less trivial life.”
“Not life, but good life, is to be chiefly valued.”
“Life isn't long enough for love and art.”
“Life is valuable -- when completed by the imagination. And then only.”
“This life is what I always wanted. I had a vision of our happiness.”
“In practical life the wisest and soundest people avoid speculation.”
“Discretion is the salt, and fancy the sugar of life; the one preserves, the other sweetens it. --”
“To me rites of passage through life, that's a wonderful, beautiful thing.”
“The need to write comes from the need to make sense of one's life and discover one's usefulness.”
“All men have one entrance into life, and the like going out”
“They are jealous of us, the Mexican players, because we've got a life and they have nothing, ... Because of that they despise us. ... Who is going to win this game? The best team. And we know good and well who is the best team between the U.S. and Mexico. We know it well.”
“Breath is life, and the intermingling of breaths is the purpose of good living. This is in essence the great principle on which all productive living must rest . . .; in this way each individual life may also be fulfilled.”
“If there are things you don't like in the world you grew up in, make your own life different.”
“College inspired me to think differently. It's like no other time in your life.”
“I've had a pretty charmed life, so there's nothing that I need to take too seriously right now.”
“Envisioning success brings you an inspiring image, but bringing that image to life requires action.”
“Values are principles and ideas that bring meaning to the seemingly mundane experience of life. A meaningful life that ultimately brings happiness and pride requires you to respond to temptations as well as challenges with honor, dignity, and courage.”
“Enthusiasm for his life, enthusiasm for his job, enthusiasm to get to his family for Christmas.”
“You have to do something in your life that is honorable and not cowardly if you are to live in peace with yourself, and for the firefighter it is fire.”
“I sing about life.”
“Be you in what line of life you may, it will be amongst your misfortunes if you have not time properly to attend to pecuniary (monetary) matters. Want of attention to these matters has impeded the progress of science and of genius itself.”
“We have to be able to grow up. Our wrinkles are our medals of the passage of life. They are what we have been through and who we want to be.”
“Be patterns, be examples in all countries, places, islands, nations wherever you come; that your carriage and life may preach among all sorts of people, and to them; then you will come to walk cheerfully over the world, answering that of God in everyone; whereby in them you may be a blessing, and make the witness of God in them to bless you.”
“We are involved in a life that passes understanding and our highest business is our daily life.”
“When we separate music from life we get art.”
“Life is movement, stay alive. Flexibility exercises that develop your full range of movement will help you on the slopes as well as in your daily life.”
“People should tell your children what life is all about -- it's about work.”
“Pastoral theology and care helps people look deeper at the intersection between their inherited religious traditions and their current life situations.”
“Let's just not take anyone who wants a hotel room. Let's take people who want to start a life in Denver, a productive life in Denver,”
“A life all turbulence and noise may seem,
To him that leads it, wise and to be praised;
But wisdom is a pearl with most success
Sought in still water, and beneath clear skies.”
“There is no substitute for books in the life of a child.”
“What is qualified? What have I been qualified for in my life? I haven't been qualified to be a mayor. I'm not qualified to be a songwriter. I'm not qualified to be a TV producer. I'm not qualified to be a successful businessman. And so, I don't know what qualified means.”
“Health is the soul that animates all the enjoyments of life, which fade and are tasteless without it.”
“I take a simple view of life: keep your eyes open and get on with it.”
“One of my great joys in life is being a pilot. There is a great sense of freedom in soaring through the sky. You get a different perspective up there. Seeing things that aren't so apparent from the ground.”
“Life is a struggle, but not a warfare.”
“Assumptions allow the best in life to pass you by”
“Never separate the life you live from the words you speak.”
“I slept and dreamt that life was beauty; I woke and found that life was duty.”
“Life begins as a quest of the child for the man and ends as a journey by the man to rediscover the child.”
“Always leave enough time in your life to do something that makes you happy, satisfied, even joyous. That has more of an effect on economic well-being than any other single factor.”
“Unless their use by readers bring them to life, books are indeed dead things.”
“I cannot forget that, just as my life was touching its fullest flower, love came and destroyed it all in a single hour.”
“For me, painting is a way to forget life. It is a cry in the night, a strangled laugh.”
“We are but frail human beings holding onto life but by a single thread, waiting ever more for the seam to unravel to our reality, pulling the fabric of our lifestyle apart, and sending us to the floor, resembling in texture and color of what we once were, but no longer the shape of our former self.
At this moment, we are at our most vulnerable, but those that can pick themselves up and carry on, can resew themselves together into a stronger fabric. They reshape themselves into a more useable form, with stronger seams, aware of their own weaknesses, and are able to progress and compensate for them. 
So, at that moment it is your decision, are you a pile of scrap, waiting to be laid aside, or do you wish to weave yourself together, progress forward, and create a beautiful tapestry of your own life?”
“I adore life but I don't fear death. I just prefer to die as late as possible.”
“Crises refine life. In them you discover what you are.”
“For us artists there waits the joyous compromise through art with all that wounded or defeated us in daily life; in this way, not to evade destiny, as the ordinary people try to do, but to fulfil it in its true potential /the imagination.”
“My vote is one of the most unimportant acts of my life; if I were to acquaint myself with the matters on which it ought really to depend, if I were to try to get a judgment on which I was willing to risk affairs of even the smallest moment, I should be doing nothing else, and that seems a fatuous conclusion to a fatuous undertaking.”
“I've learned of life this bitter truth/ Hope not between the crumbling walls Of mankind's gratitude to find repose,/ But rather,/ Build within thy own soul/ Fortresses!”
“No one can develop freely in this world and find a full life without feeling understood by at least one person.”
“It is enough that we set out to mold the motley stuff of life into some form of our own choosing; when we do, the performance is itself the wage.”
“With a stroke of the pen, they have changed my life forever.”
“I dare you, who think life is humdrum, to become involved. I dare you who are weak to become strong; you who are dull to be sparkling; you who are slaves to be kings.”
“God Himself, sir, does not propose to judge a man until his life is over. Why should you and I?”
“In my life so far, I have discovered that there are really only two kinds of people: those who are for you, and those who are against you. Learn to recognize them, for they are often and easily mistaken for each other.”
“A good deal happens in a man's life that he isn't responsible for. Fortunate openings occur; but it is safe to remember that such "breaks" are occurring all the time, and other things being equal, the advantage goes to the man who is ready.”
“It is no small mischief to a boy, that many of the best years of his life should be devoted to the learning of what can never be of any real use to any human being. His mind is necessarily rendered frivolous and superficial by the long habit of attaching importance to words instead of things; to sound instead of sense.”
“Death is an endless night so awful to contemplate that it can make us love life and value it with such passion that it may be the ultimate cause of all joy and all art.”
“It is the simplest fact of Indian life: there are too many Indians”
“He's a man of integrity and fairness and throughout his life he's inspired the respect and loyalty of others.”
“Life must be understood backwards. But it must be lived forward.”
“life is beautiful, enjoy it to the fullest.”
“Life without music is unthinkable. Music without life is academic. That is why my contact with music is a total embrace.”
“You only require two things in life: your sanity and your wife.”
“One piece of advice... ... Can I use several words? Be prepared for how all-consuming parliamentary life can be but don't be daunted by it. With discipline and camaraderie with your caucus and getting on top of the processes of parliament and parliamentary life, you will be able to work out your work-life balance regarding this job. It is most worthwhile doing if you're a person that wishes to make a privileged contribution to your country and your electorate. It is worthwhile, but don't forget that for you, the person, to function to your peak ability in parliament in quite stressful situations, you must look after you, the person, from time to time and that requires emotional support. And physical nourishment for yourself is important.”
“I don't know a better preparation for life than a love of poetry and a good digestion.”
“When it comes to the game of life, I figure I've played the whole course.”
“The river is a metaphor for life in general, ... all the bullshit that you deal with from being a kid growing up. The whole thing's just about life and death.”
“Next to God we are indebted/ to women, first for life itself,/ and then for making it/ worth living.”
“The direction of a man's thought is always the decisive factor in his personality. His whole outer life will be determined by the inward inclination of his mind.”
“Of all the possible avenues of life there are to live for, complacency should be viewed as the switch that killed the will to build.”
“Practically speaking, your religion is the story you tell about your life.”
“Success is following the pattern of life one enjoys most.”
“Sixty-four thousand dollars for a question, I hope they are asking you the meaning of life.”
“The best way to navigate through life is to give up all of our controls.”
“[That, in part, is why the Constitution's framers gave justices life tenure - to enable them to rule wherever the law and the Constitution led them, without obligation or fear of political reprisal. Former Republican president Gerald Ford recently paid tribute to John Paul Stevens , his only appointee to the Supreme Court, who is also far more liberal than Republicans expected.] He has served his nation well, ... with dignity, intellect and without partisan political concerns.”
“A simple child,
That lightly draws its breath,
And feels its life in every limb,
What should it know of death?”
“All the rarest hues of human life take radiance and are rainbowed out in tears”
“My days, my friend, are almost gone,
My life has been approved,
And many love me; but by none
Am I enough beloved.”
“Viewed narrowly, all life is universal hunger and the expression of energy associated with it.”
“Bring the twenty-seven elements of the body under your control, and throughout the three stages of life, remember death.”
“I've tried so hard to get my life back. And frankly, I don't think it is possible.”
“The trouble with life is that there are so many beautiful women and so little time”
“In my life, I served my Lord and Master, and as I depart, I keep Him enshrined in my consciousness.”
“Out of disbelief [in God] we have impudently assumed that all of life is now subject to our own will. And the disasters that have come from willing what cannot be willed have not at all brought us to some modesty about our presumptions.”
“The Guru has cut away my bonds. I shall not have to dance in the wrestling arena of life again. Nanak has searched, and found this opportunity.”
“The Divine Light of the Infinite Lord, who owns the soul and the breath of life, is deep within the inner being.”
“I have had a lot of adversaries in my political life, but no enemies that I can remember.”
“The popular idea that a child forgets easily is not an accurate one. Many people go right through life in the grip of an idea which has been impressed on them in very tender years.”
“Life and death appeared to me ideal bounds, which I should first break through, and pour a torrent of light into our dark world.”
“The blessing of this human life has been obtained, but still, people do not lovingly focus their thoughts on the Name of the Lord. Their feet slip, and they cannot stay here any longer. And in the next world, they find no place of rest at all. This opportunity shall not come again. In the end, they depart, regretting and repenting.”
“A REAL man, the kind of man a woman wants to give her life to, is one who will respect her dignity, who will honor her like the valuable treasure she is. A REAL man will not attempt to rip her precious pearl from it's protective shell, or persuade her with charm to give away her treasure prematurely, but he will wait patiently until she willingly gives him the prize of her heart. A REAL man will cherish and care for that prize forever.”
“God Himself acts, and causes others to act; everything is in His Hands. He Himself bestows life and death; He is with us, within and beyond. Nanak seeks the Sanctuary of God, the Master of all hearts.”
“The day dawns, and then it ends, and the night passes away. Man's life is diminishing, but he does not understand. Each day, the mouse of death is gnawing away at the rope of life.”
“I love Salt Lake City, but I love you and the life of work before me still better.”
“Life has a higher end,than to be amused.”
“The routines of tourism are even more monotonous than those of daily life.”
“. . . the waste even in a fortunate life, the isolation of a life rich in intimacy, cannot but be felt deeply, and is the central feeling of tragedy. And anything of value must accept this because it must not prostitute itself; its strength is to be prepared to waste itself, if it does not get the opportunity.”
“My mom has always been a great support, and she has put so much of her own life into my career. I do worry about her,”
“Having a dream is what keeps you alive, ... Overcoming the challenges make life worth living.”
“I think 25 is a great year; I think every year is a great year, ... I feel like life is so special and so great, every year I feel like I learn more, and I grow, and I think it's exciting to grow up. Twenty-five is so far, so good.”
“What we are doing is making children more insecure as our alarmist message becomes part of everyday life.”
“He's used to life in the fast lane, travels all over the world, already risks his life racing at over 300km/h and seems to be handy with a gun,”
“I think suicide is the most perfect thing you can do in life.”
“The dedicated life is worth living. You must give with your whole heart.”
“In the circle of life, 
 Respect and gratitude are due by juniors to seniors and vice-versa
 at any given level; 
 for the juniors to get inspired by the seniors,
 for the seniors to get reminded of their accomplishments.”
“Without fullness of experience, length of days is nothing. When fullness of life has been achieved, shortness of days is nothing. That is perhaps why the young have usually so little fear of death; they live by intensities that the elderly have forgotten.”
“The uniformity of earth's life, more astonishing than its diversity, is accountable by the high probability that we derived, originally, from some single cell, fertilized in a bolt of lightning as the earth cooled.”
“And remember, expect nothing and life will be velvet”
“I've never hit a walk-off homer ever, anywhere, even in Little League, in my life. And to hit one here at Yankee Stadium, this time of year, when it counts, it doesn't get any better than that.”
“Did you know destruction of the soul is not the ending to life: Fear not of the Antichrist.”
“At least one time in your life, train with the will to die.”
“No man is a failure who is enjoying life.”
“It is not ease but effort, not facility but difficult, that makes man. There is perhaps no station in life in which difficulties do not have to be encountered and overcome before any decided means of success can be achieved.”
“Fact is not to be worshipped. The life which is devoid of imagination is dead; it is tied to the earth. There need be no divorce of fact and fancy; they are only the poles of experience. What is called the scientific method is only imagination set within bounds. Facts are bridged by imagination. They are tied together by the thread of speculation. The very essence of science is to reason from the known to the unknown.”
“Music has had a profound effect on me all my life. I wanted to be able to give that to others, believe it or not.”
“Marty Robbins once sang you give me a mountain, I've been given a few mountains in my life.”
“Life at university, with its intellectual and inconclusive discussions at a postgraduate level is on the whole a bad training for the real world. Only men of very strong character surmount this handicap.”
“The Bible tells me that no greater love has a man than to lay down his life for his friends. John Kerry's fellow crewmates -- the men I am honored to share the stage with -- are living testimony to his leadership, his courage under fire, and his willingness to risk his life for his fellow Americans. There is no greater act of patriotism than that.”
“This life of ours, this is a wonderful life. If you can get through life like this and get away with it, hey that's great. But it's very predictable. There's so many ways you can screw it up.”
“One thousand one night stands are no match to a single one life stand.”
“Our life forms only one path behind us but looks at a multitude ahead of us.”
“I am blessed to have so many great things in my life - family, friends and God, ... All will be in my thoughts daily.”
“There must be more to life than having everything”
“Will humans be as clever to make life appear on Mars as they are to make it disappear from Earth ?”
“The best moments in life are those we fear as much as we desire them.”
“Don't take life too seriously. It's only a temporary condition.”
“Time to open up a new chapter in life, and to explore a larger centre.”
“When making a decision of minor importance, I have always found it advantageous to consider all the pros and cons. In vital matters, however, such as the choice of a mate or a profession, the decision should come from the unconscious, from somewhere within ourselves. In the important decisions of personal life, we should be governed, I think, by the deep inner needs of our nature”
“Once a boy becomes a man, he's a man all his life, but a woman is only sexy until she becomes your wife.”
“... we get to think of life as an inexhaustible well. Yet everything happens only a certain number of times, and a very small number, really. How many more times will you remember a certain afternoon of your childhood, some afternoon that's so deeply a part of your being that you can't even conceive of your life without it? Perhaps four or five times more. perhaps not even that. How many more times will you watch the full moon rise? Perhaps twenty. And yet it all seems limitless.”
“When work is a pleasure, life is joy.! When work is a duty, life is slavery.”
“The purpose of life is to collaborate for a common cause; the problem is nobody seems to know what it is”
“A devotee who can call on God while living a householder's life is a hero indeed. God thinks: 'He is blessed indeed who prays to me in the midst of his worldly duties. He is trying to find me, overcoming a great obstacle -- pushing away, as it were, a huge block of stone weighing a ton. Such a man is a real hero.'”
“There are no words, no paints to express all this, only a beautiful dumbness in the soul, life speaking to life.”
“for whom sitting and waiting is a way of life.”
“He who must expend his life to prolong life cannot enjoy it, and he who is still seeking for his life does not have it and can as little enjoy it.”
“I've dreamt in my life dreams that have stayed with me ever after.”
“Look at what is happening here and think of it in terms of real life and how it affected the life of Joseph, the life of David, or Jesus, or Paul.”
“I enjoyed my life when I had nothing... and kinda like the idea of just being happy with me.”
“Life is the car, your heart is the key and God is the chauffeur.”
“That would make Lions' president Matt Millen look like a genius. For once in his life.”
“Just because you're miserable doesn't mean you can't enjoy your life.”
“Life is Love, enjoy it;”
“You rose into my life like a promised sunrise, brightening my days with the light in your eyes. I've never been so strong. Now I'm where I belong.”
“Man is the only creature we know, that, when the term of his natural life is ended, leaves the memory of himself behind him.”
“Does your problem seem bigger than life, bigger than God himself? It isn't. God is infinitely bigger than any problem you ever had or will have, and every time you call a problem unsolvable, you mock God.”
“Men seek the causes for death but no one seeks the Divine source of life.”
“I am learning that if I just go on accepting the framework for life that others have given me, if I fail to make my own choices, the reason for my life will be missing. I will be unable to recognize that which I have the power to change.”
“One's personality can blossom only when he leads a mora life.”
“I decided, very early on, just to accept life unconditionally; I never expected it to do anything special for me, yet I seemed to accomplish far more than I had ever hoped. Most of the time it just happened to me without my ever seeking it.”
“Death is but another stage of life. However long one suffers from illness or however severe the injury, death can happen only when Time signals the right moment.”
“Doctors are pleased with the way the operation went. But he is still connected to life support and in a coma. This morning we feared imminent death and that is no longer the situation, but we can only wait now. It could take days for him to come out of the coma, if he comes out at all. And if he comes out of the coma they don't know if his brain will function.”
“Suddenly life has new meaning to me,There's beauty up above and things we never take notice of, You wake up suddenly you're in love.”
“It is a fact that plants also have life like animals. But animals are endowed with mind, and nervous systems too while the plants do not possess the same.”
“Education in Human Values is designed to prepare everyone for this life of dedicated service.”
“Life has worn me down to a very real shape. I'm a fully realized person, one that is truly in the world with talents and flaws.”
“Man must saturate his daily life in truthful speech, virtuous acts and holy thoughts.”
“Women are ultimately all that matters in life. Everything that we do is for them.”
“Human life is beset with ups and downs, joys and sorrows. These experiences are intended to serve as guideposts for man.”
“Virtue is the fragrance of the flowers which the tree of life puts forth. Educated people must be identified in society by their strict adherence to virtue, not by more skilled methods of escaping the consequences of vice.”
“Life starts with Love. The sweetness of love coming out of life is the great and unique principle that is at the source of everything. You can put this love in any field of work.”
“I would rather die standing up, than live life on my knees.”
“Security is when everything is settled. When nothing can happen to you. Security is the denial of life.”
“Conflicts and factions, violence and upheavals are caused by the neglect of human values in daily life.”
“I never fit in. I am a true alternative. And I love being the outcast. That's my role in life, to be an outcast.”
“Whoa, ... Maybe my life really isn't normal.”
“Being a screenwriter is not enough for a full creative life.”
“True education is not for a mere living, but for a fuller and meaningful life.”
“My life here is perfect and I'm happy at Real Madrid so of course I want to stay as long as I can.”
“If you ask me what I came into this life to do, I will tell you: I came to live out loud.”
“In most cases we attach ourselves to God in order to take revenge on life, to punish it, to signify we can do without it, that we have found something better, and we also attach ourselves to God in horror of men.”
“All my life, as down an abyss without a bottom. I have been pouring van loads of information into that vacancy of oblivion I call my mind.”
“Nothing in life is static; it either gets better, or it gets worse.”
“Try to sanctify your life by doing service and spreading joy and comfort all around.”
“Love is life for man and love is everything in this world.”
“Since all life is futility, then the decision to exist must be the most irrational of all.”
“I think the saddest moments in life have humor in them. I have a memory of coming home from a funeral with my family in the back of a limousine and someone cracking a joke and us just hysterically belly laughing. It's how we always dealt with tragedy in our lives and I think it's such a healthy way to deal with sadness,”
“For the friends life has given me,
and for the life friends have given me.”
“Life is like a taxi. The meter just keeps a-ticking whether you are getting somewhere or just standing still.”
“I am really driven, but my drive doesn't effect the conversations I have in my head about life, and my worries and fears and insecurities.”
“Words once printed assume a life of their own.”
“Life is a shit sandwich and every day you take another bite.”
“Injustice constitutes the essence of social life.”
“One person who has mastered life is better than a thousand persons who have mastered only the contents of books, but no one can get anything out of life without God”
“Life literally abounds in comedy if you just look around you.”
“Genet was an actor in the play of his life, putting on masks, rearranging facts to suit his purpose and clouding himself in mystique.”
“Forty-two years ago, I came to America from communist Cuba so I might have a better way of life, a freer way of life - a more democratic way of life. I wanted to live the American Dream where if you worked hard and put your mind to the task, anything was possible.”
“Life has been bestowed not for just eating and digesting and roaming and reclining, but for a far greater purpose - the realization of Divinity in us, in all that exists around us and even beyond all things that strike our senses. To waste such a life in vain pursuits and in mere senses of pleasures is not the sign of an intelligent person.”
“The man stands between life and death. The man thinks... The fish is mute. expressionless. The fish doesn't think, because the fish knows everything. The fish knows everything.”
“Life is a process. We are a process. The universe is a process.”
“Up to a point a man's life is shaped by environment, heredity and movement and changes in the world about him; then there comes a time when it lies within his grasp to shape the clay of his life into the sort of thing he wishes to be. Only the weak blame parents, their race, their times, lack of good fortune, or the quirks of fate. Everyone has it within his power to say this I am today, that I shall be tomorrow. The wish, however, must be implemented by deeds.”
“True religion is the life we lead, not the creed we profess.”
“The young are prodigal of life from a superabundance of it; the old are tenacious on the same score, because they have little left, and cannot enjoy even what remains of it.”
“Freedom requires that you discover your own inner language - your own life rules - your own vision.”
“So much of life is luck. One day you make a right turn and get hit by a car. Turn left and you meet the love of your life. I think I made the correct turn.”
“They are, as it were, train-bearers in the pageant of life, and hold a glass up to humanity, frailer than itself. We see ourselves at second-hand in them: they show us all that we are, all that we wish to be, and all that we dread to be. What brings the resemblance nearer is, that, as they imitate us, we, in our turn, imitate them. There is no class of society whom so many persons regard with affection as actors.”
“This -- this was what made life: a moment of quiet, the water falling in the fountain, the girl's voice... a moment of captured beauty. He who is truly wise will never permit such moments to escape.”
“Conduct is three-fourths of our life and its largest concern. .”
“Poetry is at bottom a criticism of life.”
“Well, I've had a happy life”
“Waiting and hoping are the whole of life, and as soon as a dream is realized it is destroyed.”
“In his poetry as well as in his life Shelley was indeed 'a beautiful and ineffectual angel', beating in the void his luminous wings in vain”
“She has something to say about what life is like-which is all we ask of poetry.”
“I love places that have an incredible history. I love the Italian way of life. I love the food. I love the people. I love the attitudes of Italians.”
“Anytime people are in very extreme circumstances, dealing with life and death and dealing with survival – I think we can find truth in those moments.”
“He was the love of my life. My soul hurts ... He was my best friend.”
“Left to my own imagination, I could never have composed a scenario that was anywhere as interesting as my life has been: starting out as an eager altar boy, a good Boy Scout, a relatively docile Dominican brother and priest, receiving an advanced degree in spirituality, teaching bishops and many others around the world about our Western spiritual tradition, and then ending up being expelled from the Dominican order.”
“If a man has been his mother's undisputed darling he retains throughout life the triumphant feeling, the confidence in success, which not seldom brings actual success along with it.”
“I make enemies deliberately. They are the sauce piquante to my dish of life.”
“Life is a series of commas, not periods.”
“You can give some kind of spark of life to a comic that a photograph doesn't really have. A photograph, even if it's connecting with you, it seems very dead on the page sometimes.”
“A fulfilling life is different to each person. You have to acknowledge your dreams, and not just wait for life to happen, and opportunities to come knocking at your door.”
“There are two ways to go when you hit that crossroads in your life: There is the bad way, when you sort of give up, and then there is the really hard way, when you fight back. I went the hard way and came out of it okay. Now, I'm sitting here and doing great.”
“Playing baseball is not real life. It's a fantasy world... It's a dream come true.”
“I'm glad that life isn't like a Christmas song, because if my friends and I were building a snowman and it suddenly came alive when we put a hat on it, I'd probably freak and stab it to death with an icicle.”
“Life changes fast, ... Life changes in the instant. You sit down to dinner and life as you know it ends.”
“Man must be prepared for every event of life, for there is nothing that is durable.”
“The fancy that extraterrestrial life is by definition of a higher order than our own is one that soothes all children, and many writers.”
“Having felt people's love and support first hand through difficult moments in my life makes me feel it's our responsibility to help one another.”
“The difference of the degrees in which the individuals of a great community enjoy the good things of life has been a theme of declaration and discontent in all ages.”
“[Women] create life and that's a very powerful phenomenon and pretty daunting to a man who's in a counter dependent, dysfunctional place and wants to destroy all his frustrations and fears in one attack.”
“I believe that fear of life brings a greater fear of death.”
“These are my friends, my family. It would be hell on earth to spend the rest of my life leading them into situations where some of them are going to get killed... but it would be worse watching someone well-meaning but incompetent or untrained double those deaths.”
“I get it now; I didn't get it then. That life is about losing and about doing it as gracefully as possible... and enjoying everything in between.”
“One of the most important days of my life was when I learned to ride a bicycle.”
“Few things in life can spark and radiate strong pleasure, intense feelings, and touch the main nerve of the soul... music is a divine source to those who will let it travel within.”
“The things I am doing right now I have dreamt about my whole life,”
“In 2003, I was in the best shape that I've ever been in my entire life. Last summer was something that I'd always dreamt of, ... This doesn't even compare to those meets. It's almost more of a steppingstone than anything.”
“His entire life was becoming a race against the natural -- and he was winning.”
“The most conservative persons I ever met are college undergraduates. The radicals are the men past middle life.”
“No thoughtful man ever came to the end of his life, and had time and a little space of calm from which to look back upon it, who did not know and acknowledge that it was what he had done unselfishly and for others, and nothing else, that satisfied him in the retrospect, and made him feel that he had played the man.”
“Hunger does not breed reform; it breeds madness, and all the ugly distempers that make an ordered life impossible”
“Provision for others is a fundamental responsibility of human life.”
“My life would be in danger if I return to Mexico.”
“Business underlies everything in our national life, including our spiritual life. Witness the fact that in the Lord's Prayer, the first petition is for daily bread. No one can worship God or love his neighbor on an empty stomach.”
“Pride and jealousy there was in his eye, for his life had been spent in asserting rights which were constantly liable to invasion; and the prompt, fiery, and resolute disposition of the man, had been kept constantly upon the alert by the circumstances of his situation.”
“The nation's honor is dearer than the nation's comfort; yes, than the nation's life itself”
“Nobody can be kinder than the narcissist while you react to life in his own terms”
“That's life. You've got to deal with it, good and bad. We'll be all right. I mean, if we make the chase, we make it. If we don't, we don't.”
“The half hour between waking and rising has all my life proved propitious to any task which was exercising my invention... It was always when I first opened my eyes that the desired ideas thronged upon me.”
“The belief that there are other life forms in the universe is a matter of faith. There is not a single shred of evidence for any other life forms, and in forty years of searching, none has been discovered. There is absolutely no evidentiary reason to maintain this belief.”
“People find life entirely too time-consuming.”
“If you have no friends to share or rejoice in your success in life - if you cannot look back to those whom you owe gratitude, or forward to those to whom you ought to afford protection, still it is no less incumbent on you to move steadily in the pat”
“If I had won today and all those other championships, my life might be totally different, but I didn't win. It's not going to affect my life. I am upset inside, but I'm not going to run around and be like a Dennis Rodman and head-butt an official.”
“Every life is march from innocence, through temptation, to virtue or vice.”
“A pro-life advocate sees abortion as a sin against God who infuses life at the moment of conception. A pro-choice advocate sees abortion as a decision to be made in accordance with the best scientific opinion as to when the beginning of life, as we know it, occurs.”
“Every life is a march from innocence, through temptation, to virtue or vice.”
“The gods conceal from men the happiness of death, that they may endure life.”
“Each ten years of a man's life has its own fortunes, its own hopes, its own desires.”
“To be religious is to have a life that flows with the presence of the extraordinary.”
“The wise man reads both books and life itself.”
“I feel that life is divided up into the horrible and the miserable”
“Life holds one great but quite commonplace mystery. Though shared by each of us and known to all, seldom rates a second thought. That mystery, which most of us take for granted and never think twice about, is time.”
“There are no little events in life, those we think of no consequence may be full of fate, and it is at our own risk if we neglect the acquaintances and opportunities that seem to be casually offered, and of small importance.”
“Wisdom does not show itself so much in precept as in life - in a firmness of mind and mastery of appetite. It teaches us to do as well as talk; and to make our actions and words all of a color.”
“Knowledge is going to make you stronger. Knowledge is going to let you control your life. Knowledge is going to give you the wisdom to teach their children. Knowledge is the thing that makes you smile in the face of disaster.”
“And life is given to none freehold, but it is leasehold for all.”
“The generations of living things pass in a short time, and like runners hand on the torch of life”
“Life is one long struggle in the dark.”
“Poetry is a matter of life, not just a matter of language.”
“There are too many mediocre things in life to deal with. Love shouldn’t be one of them. Anything less than extraordinary is a waste of my time.”
“My life will be sour grapes and ashes without you.”
“If it happens, it happens. If it doesn't, it doesn't. I'm fine. I don't lose sleep over it. My life goes on.”
“He is not dead who departs from life with a high and noble fame; but he is dead, even while living, whose brow is branded with infamy.”
“I think it was inspirational. Not many people in their life ever get to play against the best. And when you play against the best you tend to learn and become better yourself.”
“But the thing about skydiving: I feel when you do something where it's almost like your whole life flashes in front of you, it's supposed to be that when you hit the ground, you don't fear anything. And it's really a motivating force for you to just get out there and do as much as you can, because it's crazy.”
“Life isn't worth living unless you're willing to take some big chances and go for broke.”
“We have become accustomed to living our life with joy amidst pain and challenges,”
“The best way to prepare for life is to begin to live.”
“You have to celebrate the gifts because life is so hard and I think once you realize life's gonna be hard, the good stuff really comes forward,”
“You must understand the whole of life, not just 
one little part of it. That is why you must read, 
that is why you must look at the skies, that is 
why you must sing, and dance, and write poems, and
suffer, and understand, for all that is life.”
“If I had done 'Titanic,' it would have made, probably, $200,000 - worldwide. So I think my life would have been very, very similar.”
“When you face the perils of weariness, carelessness, and confusion, don't pray for an easier life. Pray instead to be a stronger man or woman of God.”
“I've moved around so much in life. Baseball has always been there.”
“'Those eyes!' ... I've heard that my whole life. I'm actually quite blind. I wear contacts.”
“Not just a benchmark in my career, but a benchmark in my life,”
“Is not this the true romantic feeling - not to desire to escape life, but to prevent life from escaping you?”
“Life is like a roller coaster, live it, be happy, enjoy life.”
“I was lucky -- I found what I love to do early in life,”
“[According to reports from Australia, one fan shouted from the stage] play some Pumpkins ... Can I live my life for today?”
“In the course of my life, I have often had to eat my words, and I must confess that I have always found it a wholesome diet.”
“Never shall I forget that first night in camp, which has turned my life into one long night, ... Never shall I forget that smoke. Never shall I forget the little faces of the children, whose bodies I saw turned into wreaths of smoke beneath a silent blue sky.”
“During my life, I have often had to eat my own words, and on the whole I have found them a wholesome diet”
“Nobody would choose to have a disease visited upon them. Still, Parkinson's forced me to make a fundamental life decision: adopt a siege mentality - or embark upon a life journey.”
“We stand by this good pro-life law that will reduce the number of abortions in our state and stand ready to provide the attorney general all the information he will need to do his job defending this valuable law.”
“It is about trying to cope with the work I've got, get the balance right between home life and work life -- trying to do a good job always with one eye on personal development,”
“There comes a point in your life when you realize how quickly time goes by, and how quickly it has gone. Then it really speeds up exponentially. With that, I think you start to put a lot of things into context; you start to see how huge the world is, and really, the universe.”
“A message prepared in the mind reaches a mind; a message prepared in a life reaches a life.”
“I spend half my time just living my life, and the other half analyzing it.”
“It is a gaping wound, whenever one touches it and removes the bandages and plasters of daily life.”
“To make a video game come to life was definitely a childhood fetish of mine. I have to admit there's not much substance there, but it was fun.”
“As I look back over my life, before I had any real identity, I was a traveler. I grew up an Army brat, a runaway, an activist, and a musician. All my life I've been traveling.”
“The secret of a long life is knowing when it's time to go.”
“We want to continue to grow but in a way that will sustain the quality of life … you try and strike a balance.”
“My whole life, when I was growing up, not one race has ever accepted me, ... So I never felt connected or attached to any race specifically. I had a very American upbringing, I feel American, and I don't speak Spanish. So, to say that I'm a Latin actress, OK, but it's not fitting; it would be insincere.”
“The studio, a room to which the artist consigns himself for life, is naturally important, not only as workplace, but as a source of inspiration. And it usually manages, one way or another, to turn up in his product.”
“Trying to figure out this life .”
“Just as we have two eyes and two feet, duality is part of life.”
“Life, at least with us, doesn't need to fall like a military drill. The way we do things, we don't need windows and doors and ceilings. Things just happen when they happen.”
“Life is about rhythm. We vibrate, our hearts are pumping blood, we are a rhythm machine, that's what we are.”
“Life doesn't give you all the practice races you need.”
“It will kind of be a montage of my life on the road and the tour,”
“Where there is age there is evolution, where there is life there is growth.”
“’Tis the maddest trick a man can ever play in his whole life, to let his breath sneak out of his body without any more ado, and without so much as a rap o’er the pate, or a kick of the guts; to go out like the snuff of a farthing candle, and die merely of the mulligrubs, or the sullens.”
“Is there intelligent life on earth? Yes, but I'm only visiting.”
“A lot of my music is very reggae- driven. Half of my life Bob Marley was all I listened to.”
“I think human beings make life beautiful. There's a lot of beauty in everything. I think what makes life beautiful is the ability to acknowledge that.”
“I've danced one time in my life. It was the most mortifying experience I ever had.”
“I feel that life is short, so we should be disciplined, but at the same time we should have a good time.”
“When I lose touch with the audience and the reality of what life really is, I'll be Vanilla Ice or something.”
“She fights and vanquishes in me, and I live and breathe in her, and I have life and being”
“There are things in your life you can control - and there are variables you can't. The more diligent you are at controlling what you can, the more influence you'll have over your destiny. You just have to figure out which are which.”
“There's a trick to the Graceful Exit. I begins with the vision to recognize when a job, a life stage, a relationship is over -- and to let go. It means leaving what's over without denying its value.”
“A new year, a new home, a new truck, a new life.”
“There was a time in my life when I was very interested in relationship psychology. Relationships end, but they don't end your life. But people do often spending more time finding out about failed relationships than finding successful ones.”
“You can't get much done in life if you only work on the days when you feel good.”
“Without love in your life, you have nothing.”
“A tragic irony of life is that we so often achieve success or financial independence after the chief reason for which we sought it has passed away.”
“Your life is valuable and worth something, and look at this contribution that we are bringing to this country.”
“We are all of us resigned to death: it's life we aren't resigned to.”
“The ultimate goal of a more effective and efficient life is to provide you with enough time to enjoy some of it.”
“I was finally in love with another man who was going to be my partner for life. I mean, he - he was the man of my dreams, I thought, until finally, one day, a Christian woman showed up at my door with a Bible and asked if she could share with me the gospel of Christ, and she confronted me about my homosexuality that day.”
“All of us, whether or not we're celebrities, every one ought to spend part of their life making someone else's life better.”
“Hope is a feeling that life and work have meaning. You either have it or you don't, regardless of the state of the world that surrounds you.”
“Life is a maze in which we take the wrong turn before we have learnt to walk”
“I'll always remember; it was the best day of my life.”
“Faith gives you an inner strength and a sense of balance and perspective in life.”
“Argentine political life is like the life of an ant community or an African forest tribe: full of events, full of crisis and deaths, but life is always cyclical, and the year ends as it begins.”
“Life is eternal, love is immortal and death is only a horizon.
Life is eternal as we move into the light
and the horizon is nothing 
save the limit of our sight.”
“Age is…wisdom, if one has lived one's life properly.”
“We are all serving a life-sentence in the dungeon of self”
“The most important thing in life is to learn how to give out love, and to let it come in.
 "Let it come in. We think we don't deserve love, we think if we let it in we'll become too soft. But a wise man named Levine said it right. He said, 'Love is the only rational act.'"”
“spirit, love of life and baseball.”
“There's no greater bliss in life than when the plumber eventually comes to unblock your drains. No writer can give that sort of pleasure.”
“This Third Psychology is now one facet of a new philosophy of life, a new conception of man, the beginning of a new century of work.”
“If life were measured by accomplishments, most of us would die in infancy.”
“There's a constant drip and trickle of life that goes into one's awareness really and consciousness of things.”
“I am probably the most selfish man you will ever meet in your life. No one gets the satisfaction or the joy that I get out of seeing kids realize there is hope.”
“It doesn't make your life stop being fun to be a Christian.”
“Religion becomes. a state of mind achievable in almost any activity of life, if this activity is raised to a suitable level of perfection.”
“Do not entertain bad thoughts and do bad deeds. Life is holy and sacred. Go through it with joy and happiness. Do not carry gloomy, unhappy faces. Happiness is union with God. This period of your life is sacred. If you can not derive happiness and live in Bliss at this age, can you be blissful when you grow old? Now, you have only two legs to carry; you can jump about freely. But when you marry and rear up a family, you will move like a caterpillar with many legs!”
“What an immense power over the life is the power of possessing distinct aims. The voice, the dress, the look, the very motion of a person, define and alter when he or she begins to live for a reason.”
“) it is the image of this woman, sitting idly be her Algiers window indifferently watching life pass her by. He pities his mother but that is not the same as love. Feeling this detachment, he can begin to understand her unhappiness.”
“A healthy love life is not and should not be the preserve of those in their 20s and 30s. It's important at all ages.”
“Accept life, take it as it is? Stupid. The means of doing otherwise? Far from our having to take it, it is life that possesses us and on occasion shuts our mouths.”
“There comes a moment in a young artist's life when he knows he has to bring something to the stage from within himself. He has to put in something in order to be able to take something out.”
“THE river of human life meanders along, through many a valley, leaps over many a cliff, loses itself in many a marsh and seeks to empty itself in the ocean of Divine Grace; though, what happens is that it falls into the undrinkable expanse of salt.”
“Not until the creation and maintenance of decent conditions of life for all people are recognized and accepted as a common obligation of all people and all countries - not until then shall we, with a certain degree of justification, be able to speak of humankind as civilized.”
“Purity of personal life is the one indispensable condition for building up a sound education.”
“The way to screw up somebody's life is to give them what they want.”
“Despite the pleasure, interest and quality of life I was getting from television and film, it really was not making me happy. I realized theater was where I simply had to be. It's a sense of age -- I don't want to waste my time. I just want everything to be important and not to be trivial.”
“Intellect takes us along in the battle of life to a certain limit, but at the crucial moment it fails us. Faith transcends reason. It is when the horizon is the darkest and human reason is beaten down to the ground that faith shines brightest and comes to our rescue.”
“Man can no longer live for himself alone. We must realize that all life is valuable and that we are united to all life. From this knowledge comes our spiritual relationship with the universe.”
“If a man loses his reverence for any part of life, he will lose his reverence for all of life.”
“Reverence for life is the highest court of appeal.”
“Today we know that all living beings who strive to maintain life and who long to be spared pain - all living beings on earth are our neighbors”
“I want to see India free in my life-time. But God may not consider me fit enough to see the dream of my life fulfilled. Then I shall quarrel, not with Him but with myself.”
“Renunciation of thinking is a declaration of spiritual bankruptcy. - Out of My Life and Thoughts.”
“You needn't die happy when your day comes, but you must die satisfied, for you have lived your life from beginning to end.”
“There are no heroes of action: only heroes of renunciation and suffering - Out of My Life and Thoughts.”
“No life that breathes with human breath has ever truly longed for death”
“A lot of movies are about life, mine are like a slice of cake.”
“I cannot rest from travel; I will drink Life to the lees”
“We can comprehend every single life phenomenon, as if the past, the present, and the future together with a superordinate, guiding idea were present in it in traces.”
“Truthfully, when I see what we can accomplish with money on the ground, it's the only time in my life I have wished I was Bill Gates.”
“Self-reverence, self-knowledge, self-control - these three alone lead life to sovereign power.”
“Reverence for life affords me my fundamental principle of morality.”
“OPERA, n. A play representing life in another world, whose inhabitants have no speech but song, no motions but gestures and no postures but attitudes. All acting is simulation, and the word 
_simulation_ is from _simia_, an ape; but in opera the actor takes for his model _Simia audibilis_ (or _Pithecanthropos stentor_) --the ape that howls.
The actor apes a man --at least in shape; The opera performer apes and ape.”
“It is the lives we encounter that make life worth living.”
“Golf without bunkers and hazards would be tame and monotonous. So would life.”
“Life is to entered upon with courage.”
“The average man does not know what to do with his life, yet wants another one which will last forever”
“Life never presents us with anything which may not be looked upon as a fresh starting point, no less than as a termination”
“It is a thrill to be publishing the autobiography of a truly iconic figure whose life story will be of interest to millions of people around the world.”
“It's incredibly easy to get caught up in an activity trap, in the business of life, to work harder and harder at climbing the ladder of success only to discover it's leaning against the wrong wall.”
“The most exhausting thing in life is insincerity”
“Charles is life itself-pure life, force, like sunlight-and it is for this that I married him and this that holds me to him-caring always, caring desperately what happens to him and whatever he happens to be involved in.”
“There really is a lack of information about this phase in a woman's life,”
“If only we could go back to Moscow! Sell the house, finish with our life here, and go back to Moscow.”
“I want to know how these very people who are against war because of loss of life can possibly be the same people who are for abortion? They are the same people who are for animal rights, but they are not for the rights of the unborn.”
“In life, it is not what you know or who you know that counts -- it is both!”
“Four things come not back. The spoken word, the sped arrow, the past life, ad the neglected opportunity.”
“The unexpected has happened so continually in my life that it has ceased to deserve the name.”
“There's the scarlet thread of murder running through the colorless skein of life, and our duty is to unravel it, and isolate it, and expose every inch of it.”
“I've spent most of my life in Scotland, and I haven't moved around a great deal.”
“Several incidents in my life have convinced me of spiritual interposition - of the promptings of some beneficent force outside ourselves, which tries to help us where it can”
“I live a life that is fun to watch and I think people are interested in that.”
“The life is a wonderful thing. You have to appreciate it NOW... because you never know what is going to happen tomorrow.”
“The federal government's response must be dramatically increased in order to prevent a further loss of life.”
“Politicians also have no leisure, because they are always aiming at something beyond political life itself, power and glory, or happiness.”
“I left basically to get a different perspective on life. I wasn't satisfied with myself or the type of music I was doing. I just felt I'd dried up.”
“Men cling to life even at the cost of enduring great misfortune”
“The ideal man bears the accidents of life with dignity and grace, making the best of circumstances.”
“Happiness may be defined as good fortune joined to virtue, or a independence, or as a life that is both agreeable and secure”
“Certainly the most diverse, if minor, pastime of literary life is the game of Find the Author.”
“In real life, it is the hare who wins. Every time. Look around you. And in any case it is my contention that Aesop was writing for the tortoise market. Hares have no time to read. They are too busy winning the game.”
“Success, instead of giving freedom of choice, becomes a way of life. There's no country I've been to where people, when you come into a room and sit down with them, so often ask you, "What do you do?" And, being American, many's the time I've almost”
“Our first ideas of life are generally taken from fiction rather than fact.”
“There is no doubt that life is given us, not to be enjoyed, but to be overcome /to be got over.”
“Love the moment. Flowers grow out of dark moments. Therefore, each moment is vital. It affects the whole. Life is a succession of such moments and to live each, is to succeed.”
“Forbearance, compassion and incorruptible virtue are the three pillars of a happy life. Only such a life can be called civilized; the rest is barbarian existence.”
“Life is full and overflowing with the new. But it is necessary to empty out the old to make room for the new to enter.”
“I begin to think, that a calm is not desirable in any situation in life ... Man was made for action and for bustle too, I believe.”
“If we were not all so interested in ourselves, life would be so uninteresting that none of us would be able to endure it.”
“I have been five minutes too late all my life-time!”
“For happy and congenial marital life, the husband and wife must have faith, understanding and trust in each other. The wife should always be respectful towards her husband. The husband also should be caring and loving towards his wife so that the bond between them becomes stronger day by day and both of them enjoy a happy and satisfied married life.”
“No matter how little things are in life, you should always try to do the best you can, because you never know what can happen.”
“Every man, however wise, needs the advice of some sagacious friend in the affairs of life.”
“The shortness of life cannot dissuade us from its pleasures, nor console us for its pains”
“Almost all the fields and walks of life are polluted with these poisonous feelings; but the field of education, being the most prominent organ, needs our special attention.”
“It is only a man's own fundamental thoughts that have truth and life in them. For it is these that he really and completely understands. To read the thoughts of others is like taking the remains of someone else's meal, like putting on the discarded clothes of a stranger.”
“In this case, golf is a means to an end. We can't change the course that someone's life has taken in the past, but through golf we can help mold that life and give it a more positive feeling.”
“To be truly challenging, a voyage, like a life, must rest on a firm foundation of financial unrest. Otherwise you are doomed to a routine traverse, the kind known to yachtsmen, who play with their boats at sea - "cruising," it is called. Voyaging belongs to seamen, and to the wanderers of the world who cannot, or will not, fit in. If you are contemplating a voyage and you have the means, abandon the venture until your fortunes change. Only then will you know what the sea is all about.”
“My life is a lovely story, happy and full of incident.”
“Life is an escalator: You can move forward or backward; you can not remain still.”
“I will never say never, but at this time in my life NUDITY IS OUT.”
“Religion should be the rule of life, not a casual incident in it”
“King Louis Philippe once said to me that he attributed the great success of the British nation in political life to their talking politics after dinner.”
“The secret of success in life is for a man to be ready for his opportunity when it comes.”
“If you take too long in deciding what to do with your life, you'll find you've done it”
“Words are our life. We are human because we use language. So I think we are less human when we use less language.”
“That which resembles most living one's life over again, seems to be to recall all the circumstances of it; and, to render this remembrance more durable, to record them in writing.”
“A life of leisure, and a life of laziness, are two things.”
“I've done a fair share of stupid things in my life, a couple of which should have put me in the grave. But here I am, typing away as if I had a brain.”
“The good or ill hap of a good or ill life, is the good or ill choice of a good or ill wife.”
“No man's life, liberty or fortune is safe while our legislature is in session.”
“Life with fools consists in drinking; with the wise man, thinking.”
“The day that you discover that you are in charge of your life is the day you turn your life around.”
“In life, as in art, the beautiful moves in curves.”
“Life is short and so is money”
“When I sit down at a piano, I feel what's going on in my life and what led up to it. Certain songs are born from that motivation.”
“Life asks not merely what you can do; it asks how much can you endure and not be spoiled.”
“Every human life involves an unfathomable mystery, for man is the riddle of the universe, and the riddle of man in his endowment with personal capacities.”
“Wish a miser long life, and you wish him no good.”
“It's maybe a little sweeter now. Maybe it's a little easier now because I have a life and I hopefully am more secure in mind and body and spirit.”
“It did not feel like something that was going to take over my life and destroy it. It felt like a subtle flower instead of a manipulative demon. That's the mystery of heroin.”
“I sent my soul through the Invisible,
Some letter of that After life to spell:
And by and by my Soul return'd to me,
And answer'd "I Myself am Heav'n and Hell."”
“I don't have that much mental energy, so I have to kind of guard it with my life.”
“The good life, as I conceive it, is a happy life. I do not mean that if you are good you will be happy; I mean that if you are happy you will be good.”
“Freedom comes only to those who no longer ask of life that it shall yield them any of those personal goods that are subject to the mutations of time.”
“Real life is, to most men, a long second-best, a perpetual compromise between the ideal and the possible”
“Organic life, we are told, has developed gradually from the protozoon to the philosopher, and this development, we are assured, is indubitably an advance. Unfortunately it is the philosopher, not the protozoon, who gives us this assurance.”
“The life of man is a long march through the night, surrounded by invisible foes, tortured by weariness and pain, towards a goal that few can hope to reach, and where none may tarry long.”
“If all our happiness is bound up entirely in our personal circumstances it is difficult not to demand of life more than it has to give.”
“The lessons taught in great books are misleading. The commerce in life is rarely so simple and never so just.”
“Belief in God and a future life makes it possible to go through life with less of stoic courage than is needed by sceptics”
“The splendor of human life, I feel sure, is greater to those who are not dazzled by the divine radiance”
“I am the sweet fragrance in the earth. I am the heat in the fire, the life in all living beings, and the austerity in the ascetics.”
“The truth is that existence wants your life to become a festival...because when you are unhappy, you also throw unhappiness all around. ”
“Living creatures are nourished by food, and food is nourished by rain; rain itself is the water of life, which comes from selfless worship and service.”
“Maybe the answer to Selective Service is to start everyone off in the army and draft them for civilian life as needed.”
“One must act in painting as in life, directly.”
“Old men should have more care to end life well than to live long.”
“The thing that is incredible is life itself. Why should we be here in this sun-illuminated universe? Why should there be green earth under our feet?”
“You lot are the most ridiculous looking men I have ever seen in my life.”
“Sages speak of the immutable Tree of Life, with its tape root above and its branches below.”
“To throw oneself to the side of the oppressed is the only dignified thing to do in life”
“The first thing to do in life is to do with purpose what one purposes to do.”
“What I enjoy most is travelling to different places and meeting new people. For me, it?s all about life experiences, and I?m very grateful that acting allows me so many interesting and fulfilling ones.”
“You don't feel sorry for yourself, you get on with life.”
“When someone saves your life and gives you life, there's gratitude, humility; there's a time you've been so blessed you realize you've been given another chance at life that maybe you did or didn't deserve.”
“A good country song takes a page out of somebody's life and puts it to music.”
“I wish life were more like a musical, so when I burst into song at the bus stop, people would stop staring at me. It might also make them more inclined to learn the chorus and the dance numbers.”
“The creed of a true saint is to make the best of life, and to make the most of it.”
“The government is huge, stupid, greedy and makes nosy, officious and dangerous intrusions into the smallest corners of life / this much we can stand. But the real problem is that government is boring. We could cure or mitigate the other ills Washington visits on us if we could only bring ourselves to pay attention to Washington itself. But we cannot.”
“A hat should be taken off when you greet a lady and left off for the rest of your life. Nothing looks more stupid than a hat.”
“You do what you have to do in life, when you form a philosophy that you can't talk yourself out of.”
“I cannot solve the problem of life by losing myself in the problem of art.”
“Sleep - Death without dying - living, but not life.”
“I don't let people use me. That's why I like a small number of people in my life. The more people in my life, the more complex it becomes, so I just try to keep it at a minimum.”
“But thou hast fully known my doctrine, manner of life, purpose, faith, longsuffering, charity, patience, / Persecutions, afflictions, which came unto me at Antioch, at Iconium, at Lystra; what persecutions I endured: but out of them all the Lord delivered me.”
“I am crucified with Christ: neverthless I live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me: and the life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me, and gave himself for me.”
“Life is the desert, life the solitude, death joins us to the great majority.”
“She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her: and happy is every one that retaineth her.”
“For what is your life? It is even a vapor, that appeareth for a little time, and then vanisheth away.”
“My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me: / And I give unto them eternal life; and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand.”
“For he that will love life, and see good days, let him refrain his tongue from evil, and his lips that they speak no guile (1 Peter 3:10).”
“I call heaven and earth to record this day against you, that I have set before you life and death, blessing and cursing: therefore choose life, that both thou and thy seed may live (Deuteronomy 30:19)”
“My soul is weary of my life; I will leave my complaint upon myself; I will speak in the bitterness of my soul.”
“Is not wisdom found among the aged? Does not long life bring understanding? (Job 12:12)”
“For bodily exercise profiteth little: but godliness is profitable unto all things, having promise of the life that now is, and of that which is to come.”
“Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow. For what is your life? It is even a vapour, that appeareth for a little time, and then vanisheth away (James 4:14).”
“For even the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many.”
“Trust not thou in their life, neither respect their multitude: for one that is just is better than a thousand; and better it is to die without children, than to have them that are ungodly.”
“Because strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it (Matthew 7:14).”
“If we let go of things, our life is going to change. And the reality is that we are actually more afraid of change than we are of death.”
“I didn't expect him to be that mad in real life.”
“It was the hardest day of my life. I was an emotional wreck. What's made it harder over the years is that no one has paid for it. There's been no justice. Ten years is a long time to carry that with you.”
“The paintings are moods, impressions of the life of the soul, and together they represent one aspect of the battle, between man and woman, that is called love.”
“I've intimidated men my entire life and it has nothing to do with fame.”
“Absolutely committed to spending the rest of my life as a spokesman for the rights of European Americans.”
“See, I have set before thee this day life and good, and death and evil (Deuteronomy 30:15).”
“Keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life (Jude 1:21).”
“Here we stand in the middle of this new world with our primitive brain, attuned to the simple cave life, with terrific forces at our disposal, which we are clever enough to release, but whose consequences we cannot comprehend.”
“To me Country Music is about real life.”
“See, I have set before thee this day life and good, and death and evil; / In that I command thee this day to love the LORD thy God, to walk in his ways, and to keep his commandments and his statutes and his judgments, that thou mayest live and multiply: and the LORD thy God shall bless thee in the land whither thou goest to possess it.”
“The way I see things, the way I see life, I see it as a struggle. And there's a great deal of reward I have gained coming to that understanding -- that existence is a struggle.”
“It seems to me I spent my life in car pools, but you know, that's how I kept track of what was going on”
“A wholesome tongue is a tree of life: but perverseness therein is a breach in the spirit (Proverbs 15:4).”
“I had such a wonderful life before drugs and alcohol abuse. I've got that life back now and plan to keep it. Maybe I had to go through what I did to get to this point, to appreciate this life more.”
“It isn't the people you fire who make your life miserable, it's the people you don't”
“You should be an expert on your life story. If you're not interested in your story, no one else will be either.”
“This is life we've been given, made to be lived out, so...live out loud.”
“Life consists of a lot of minor annoyances and a few matters of real consequence.”
“Death and life are in the power of the tongue: and they that love it shall eat the fruit thereof (Proverbs 18:21).”
“Every man must have a philosophy of life, for everyone must have a standard by which to measure his conduct. And philosophy is nothing but a standard by which to measure.”
“Life improves slowly and goes wrong fast, and only catastrophe is clearly visible.”
“He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life: but he that openeth wide his lips shall have destruction (Proverbs 13:3).”
“In the way of righteousness is life; and in the pathway thereof there is no death (Proverbs 12:28).”
“I have been unable to live an uncommitted or suspended life. I have not hesitated to declare my affiliation with an extremely unpopular cause.”
“It has always been difficult for Man to realize that his life is all an art. It has been more difficult to conceive it so than to act it so. For that is always how he has more or less acted it.”
“The ear that heareth the reproof of life abideth among the wise (Proverbs 15:31).”
“always be very dear to his heart. It's impacted my life, 90 percent for the better.”
“In football, like in life, you must learn to play within the rules of the game.”
“Modern life is so thin and shallow and fake. I look forward to when developers go bankrupt, Japan gets poorer and wild grasses take over.”
“It's not true that life is one damn thing after another; it's one damn thing over and over.”
“Take fast hold of instruction; let her not go: keep her; for she is thy life (Proverbs 4:13).”
“I loved living in the White House. But I never thought I could do that for life. The thing I miss most -- is the work and the people that I worked with and saw. But I actually like this part of my life -- I like having my life back.”
“Everything in life is speaking in spite of it's apparent silence.”
“The surest sign that intelligent life exists elsewhere in the universe is that it has never tried to contact us.”
“To be alive is a fine thing. It is the finest thing in the world, though hazardous. It is a unique thing. It happens only once in a lifetime. To be alive, to know consciously that you are alive, and to relish that knowledge - this is a kind of magic. Or it may be a kind of madness, exhilarating but harmless.”
“My life needs a rewind/erase button.”
“Human beings live -- literally live, as if life is equated with the mind -- by symbols, particularly words, because the brain is constructed to process information almost exclusively in their terms.”
“Life is a luminous halo, a semi-transparent envelope surrounding us from the beginning”
“I'M SIGNIFICANT! screamed the dust speck.”
“In life and business, there are two cardinal sins, ... The first is to act precipitously without thought, and the second is to not act at all. Unfortunately the board of directors and top management of Times Warner already committed the first sin by merging with AOL, and we believe they are currently in the process of committing the second; now is not a time to move slowly and suffer the paralysis of inaction.”
“Life for both sexes is arduous, difficult, a perpetual struggle. More than anything... it calls for confidence in oneself...And how can we generate this imponderable quality most quickly? By thinking that other people are inferior to oneself.”
“It is a truth universally acknowledged that as soon as one part of your life starts looking up, another falls to pieces.”
“Always move forward, going straight will get you nowhere.”
“Wealth and children are the adornment of life.”
“It is not a biopic; it is not a trawl through the facts of somebody's life. It is more an evening with a Shakespearean clown who speaks the truth and was whipped for his pains. Writing the play made me love and loathe my country more: love it that it could create, and has always created, one-offs like Quentin; loathe it for its rejection of him.”
“In the end we are all sacked and it's always awful. It is as inevitable as death following life. If you are elevated there comes a day when you are demoted. Even Prime Ministers.”
“No publication is a staple of life. It's not bread and water. You have to make it noteworthy in people's minds and even in their hands as they're holding it.”
“There was a time in my life when I was drinking too much, and so I have stopped. It's an interesting concept. 'Just don't drink.' Hmm! I never thought of that!”
“I've only felt content a few times in my life, and it never lasted. I'm very discontented right now. There are situations in my life that didn't pan out. I'm like most other human beings. I try and I fail.”
“Most of a modest woman's life was spent, after all, in denying what, in one day at least of every year, was made obvious.”
“It's often said that life is strange. But compared to what?.”
“It is foolish to postpone enjoyment of your ordinary life until you are more successful, more secure, or more loved than you are today”
“Human values should predominate in men’s thoughts. Human life has no meaning without these values.”
“Life is like an onion. You peel it off one layer at a time, and sometimes you weep.”
“Parents, are given that name, because it is through them that we have the wonderful chance of life on earth. For the sacrifices that they have made for us, we must PAY RENTS to them. ”
“We who officially value freedom of speech above life itself seem to have nothing to talk about but the weather.”
“For as old age is that period of life most remote from infancy, who does not see that old age in this universal man ought not to be sought in the times nearest his birth, but in those most remote from it?”
“The hard times are several years behind me now. This is probably the most peaceful stretch of life I've known as an adult.”
“The dream, alone, is of interest. What is life, without a dream?”
“The trick in life is learning how to deal with it.”
“Barbarism is needed every four or five hundred years to bring the world back to life. Otherwise it would die of civilization.”
“At times in my life the only place I have been happy is when I am on stage.”
“ The more you observe life in relation to yourself the more you will see the fact that you are hardly ever correct when you think about something in the future. The future exists only in imagination; and that is why, no matter how hard you try to imagine it, you will not be able to predict the future with total certainty. ”
“Everyone and everything that shows up in our life is a reflection of something that is happening inside of us.”
“Find patience in the breath of life.”
“ There is only one thing in your life YOU can be sure of. That one thing is this moment, now. The last moment has gone forever The next moment has not come.”
“Marriage, in life, is like a duel in the midst of a battle.”
“Audiences cry in the theater when people make a hard choice-for life.”
“To be able to look life in the face: that's worth living in a garret for, isn't it?”
“When you are young, you think.
When you are old, you reflect.
The very same but yet a life of difference.”
“There are situations in life to which the only satisfactory response is a physically violent one. If you don't make that response, you continually relive the unresolved situation over and over in your life.”
“Soldiers have told me he was a true warrior, had no fear of death, but had a love for life. They said the safest place to be was with him.”
“Life is always a tightrope or a feather bed. Give me the tightrope.”
“ The moment is your only duty. Your duty at any time in your life is to do what you have to do from moment to moment.”
“The thing about real life is that important events don’t announce themselves. Trumpets don’t blow, drums don’t beat to let you know you are going to meet the most important person you’ve ever met, or read the most important thing you are ever going to read, or have the most important conversation you are ever going to have, or spend the most important week you are ever going to spend. Usually something that is going to change your whole life is a memory before you can stop and be impressed about it. You don’t usually have a chance to get excited about that sort of thing…ahead of time!”
“I really feel sorry for people who are, who divide their whole life up into 'things that I like' and 'things that I must do.' You're only here for a short time, mate. Learn to like it.”
“Life is so strange. 'West Side Story' was one of the high points of my career. Yet when I first saw it I was really disappointed in how I came off. Since then Fred Astaire has told me how much he admired my dancing in it. Now I see it very differently.”
“Ya know, right now the most important thing in my life is to make sure you understand that, first of all I thank God I'm alive today, and I mean that.
I spent too many years of my life thinking that the big party was the whole thing. it took me quiet a while to find out that the real deal is to be able to be enough of a person on your own to know when somebody loves you and cares about you.
You see, we are here, as far as I can tell, to help each other; our brothers, our sisters, our friends, our enemies. That is to help each other and not hurt each other. And sometimes to help them we have got to help ourselves. So that we will know that they are around in the first place.
Its a big world out there; with enough pain and misery in it; without me going around and helping it out by hurting myself; and consequently, those that care about me.
What I am trying to get across to you; is please take of yourselves and those that you love; because that is what we are hear for, that's all we got, and that is all we can take with us. Are you with me ?”
“Life isn't all fricassied frog and eel pie.”
“I love telling stories about people that don't normally get written about. It's a different kind of life here. This is a movie from the heart, and it's a little different from the normal movies you'll see.”
“Think of your worst nightmare and never waking up from that. That would be the rest of your life married to this man. It would all be about him and not you. Valentine's Day would be a celebration of him.”
“You're very affected by your early life, ... I think if you've ever had that feeling of loneliness, of being an outsider or whatever, it doesn't leave you. You can be happy or successful or whatever, but that thing still stays inside you.”
“The life of man is a dubious experiment. It is a tremendous phenomenon only in numerical terms. Individually, it is so fleeting, so insufficient, that it is literally a miracle that anything can exist and develop at all.”
“Life has always seemed to me like a plant that lives on its rhizome. Its true life is invisible, hidden in the rhizome. The part that appears above ground lasts only a single summer. Then it withers away -- an ephemeral apparition. When we think of the unending growth and decay of life and civilizations, we cannot escape the impression of absolute nullity. Yet I have never lost a sense of something that lives and endures underneath the eternal flux. What we see is the blossom, which passes. The rhizome remains.”
“I early arrived at the insight that when no answer comes from within to the problems and complexities of life, they ultimately mean very little.”
“Football is like life and I know life.”
“If I were to live my life over again, I would be an American. I would steep myself in America, I would know no other land.”
“The most challenging scene for me was the spider scene, because I don't like spiders in real life. Even rubber ones I get really scared of.”
“The duration of life is uncertain, and the place of habitation is uncertain; but in all this inconsistent world religious merit alone is immovable.”
“Life is, in fact, a battle. Evil is insolent and strong: beauty 
enchanting but rare; goodness very apt to be weak; folly very apt to be 
defiant; wickedness to carry the day; imbeciles to be in great places, 
peolpe of sense in small, and mankind generally unhappy. But the world as 
it stands is no illusion, no phantasm, no evil dream of a night; we wake 
up to it again for ever and ever; we can neither forget it nor deny it 
nor dispense with it.”
“Any man who does not accept the conditions of human life sells his soul.”
“Every idea is endowed of itself with immortal life, like a human being. All created form, even that which is created by man, is immortal. For form is independent of matter: molecules do not constitute form.”
“All my life I have thought of France in a certain way.”
“The two most precious things this side of the grave are our reputation and our life. But it is to be lamented that the most contemptible whisper may deprive us of the one, and the weakest weapon of the other.”
“Buy an annuity cheap, and make your life interesting to yourself and everybody else that watches the speculation.”
“I never made a mistake in my life; at least, never one that I couldn't explain away afterwards.”
“I never made a mistake in my life; at least, never one that I couldn't explain away afterwards.”
“Politics are not my concern . . . They impressed me as a dog's life without a dog's decencies.”
“Alcohol was the background color in the fabric of Reggie's life.”
“He should be considered to be living who is virtuous and pious, but the life of a man who is destitute of religion and virtues is void of any blessing.”
“Oregano is the spice of life.”
“The more you love
the more you'll find
that life is good
and friends are kind
and only what we give away
enriches us from day to day.”
“Oh, life would be all right if we didn't have to put up with these damned creditors who keep pestering us with the demands of their ideals”
“You never know what a fool you can be till life gives you the chance.”
“I hope for the best, it's great to be nominated even once in your life.”
“The man whom God wills to slay in the struggle of life - He first individualizes”
“Deprive the average human being of his life-lie, and you rob him of his happiness”
“A fashion that does not reach the streets is not a fashion”
“The first half of our life is ruined by our parents and the second half by our children”
“I take away something from every role. I'm still learning and that's what life is about.”
“I consider myself a student, both in my work and my life, and I'm constantly learning and I'm constantly grateful for that.”
“Only when we eat up this planet will God give us another. We'll be remembered more for what we destroy than what we create.”
“I did not defend myself. I say a life for a life.”
“I don't want to be someone people feel sorry for; I don't want to be a martyr. I think life is amazing and at the end of the day whether I'm the best actress in the world or the worst, on my deathbed it's not going to count. What your input into life is actually what counts so that makes me have a completely different attitude.”
“The trouble with life isn't that there is no answer, it's that there are so many answers.”
“Vulgarity is the garlic in the salad of life.”
“Ah, I know what the important things are in life. I know that, just because I pretend to be someone else for two hours doesn't make me a better person than the next man. So, I know those things. Simple things.”
“The civilized are those who get more out of life than the uncivilized, and for this the uncivilized have not forgiven them”
“Death and life have their determined appointments; riches and honors depend upon heaven.”
“Towns oftener swamp one than carry one out onto the big ocean of life.”
“When we were kind of forced (by real life sniper murders in the Washington area that were too close to the film's plot) to pull the picture in October (from its Nov. 15 date), he wasn't nearly as big a star as he is today after 'Daredevil' and 'The Recruit.' He's become this hot guy.”
“Unless we submit our will to the flooding of life, there is no life in us.”
“We want the same effect as if someone's house burned here, ... We want to give them a normal life as soon as possible.”
“In the mid-course of our life”
“A good citizen owes his life to his country”
“Custom, then, is the great guide of human life.”
“Everyone has a purpose in life. Perhaps yours is watching television.”
“One cannot be a good historian of the outward, visible world without giving some thought to the hidden, private life of ordinary people; and on the other hand one cannot be a good historian of this inner life without taking into account outward events where these are relevant. They are two orders of fact which reflect each other, which are always linked and which sometimes provoke each other.”
“It is from books that wise people derive consolation in the troubles of life.”
“I think it's deeper than architecture. Design has taken on a new importance in life. The general population is paying more attention to arts and culture.”
“possibly the most shameful situation that I've ever gotten myself in in my life, and I've done some pretty dumb things in my life.”
“No man is fit to be a Senator... unless he is willing to surrender his political life for great principle.”
“Always remember that better days are ahead - if not in this life in the next.”
“There is only one way to get ready for immortality, and that is to love this life and live it as bravely and faithfully and cheerfully as we can.”
“You gotta have love for something in your life, ... Music is in our veins.”
“Green is my favorite. And it's my favorite because it's the color of my wife's eyes, grass, trees, life, and money, and mother earth!”
“Without a god, life is only a matter of opinion.”
“I'm so in control of my life, you shouldn't dislike anything I do-because I'm not only in the best place I've ever been, but it keeps getting better and better.”
“The clearest way to show what the rule of law means to us in everyday life is to recall what has happened when there is no rule of law.”
“What is life? We are born, we live a little and we die.”
“Without God there could be no American form of 
government nor an American way of life. Recognition of the Supreme Being is the 
first the most basic expression of Americanism."”
“We must be willing to let go of the life we have planned, so as to have the life that is waiting for us.”
“When men are not regretting that life is so short, they are doing something to kill time.”
“Am I motivated by what I really want out of life - or am I mass-motivated?”
“Life is a gift, but you do not get it for free”
“Who cares about great marks left behind? We have one life... Just one. Our life. We have nothing else.”
“Life that ever needs forgiveness has for its first duty to forgive”
“Man must be disappointed with the lesser things of life before he can comprehend the full value of the greater”
“When ancient opinions and rules of life are taken away, the loss cannot possibly be estimated. From that moment, we have no compass to govern us, nor can we know distinctly to what port to steer.”
“Our test is infallible. Whatever view of reality deepens our sense of the tremendous issues of life in the world wherein we move, is for us nearer the truth than any view which diminishes that sense.”
“To please universally was the object of his life; but to tax and to please, no more than to love and to be wise, is not given to men”
“[If Hurricane Katrina represented a real-life rehearsal of sorts, the response suggested to many that the nation is not ready to handle a terrorist attack of similar dimensions.] This is what the department was supposed to be all about, ... Instead, it obviously raises very serious, troubling questions about whether the government would be prepared if this were a terrorist attack. It's a devastating indictment of this department's performance four years after 9/11.”
“But to the tireless toiler toward the goal,
Shall the great miracles of God be known
And life revealed, immortal and divine.”
“At worst, a house unkept cannot be so distressing as a life unlived”
“So young, and yet I have had all of life.
Why, men have lived to see a hundred years,
Who have not known the rapture, joy, and strife
Of my brief youth, its passion and its tears.”
“The thing about real life is that important events don’t announce themselves. Trumpets don’t blow, drums don’t beat to let you know you are going to meet the most important person you’ve ever met, or read the most important thing you are ever going to read, or have the most important conversation you are ever going to have, or spend the most important week you are ever going to spend. Usually something that is going to change your whole life is a memory before you can stop and be impressed about it. You don’t usually have a chance to get excited about that sort of thing…ahead of time!”
“There are a million people who are refugees, ... Life goes on, and if it didn't impact you directly, you may not realize how devastating this is.”
“Life treads on life, and heart on heart: We press too close in church and mart, To keep a dream or grave apart”
“I love thee with the breath, Smiles, tears of all my life.”
“Life is merely a fracas on an unmapped terrain, and the universe a geometry stricken with epilepsy.”
“He, in his developed manhood, stood, a little sunburn by the glare of life.”
“Life creates itself in delirium and is undone in ennui.”
“Surgeons must be very careful. When they take the knife!, underneath their fine incisions, stirs the Culprit / Life!”
“I cannot live with You --/ It would be Life --/ And Life is over there --/ Behind the Shelf.”
“Nods from the Gilded pointers --/ Nods from the Seconds slim --/ Decades of Arrogance between/ The Dial life --/ And Him --”
“My life closed twice before its close; It yet remains to see If Immortality unveil A third event to me”
“Covetousness like jealousy, when it has taken root, never leaves a person, but with their life. Cowardice is the dread of what will happen.”
“A ship should not ride on a single anchor, nor life on a single hope.”
“If there be mortal without love,
He wakes to no new life above.”
“All of the troubles that some people have in life is that which they married into.”
“We need not only a purpose in life to give meaning to our existence but also something to give meaning to our suffering. We need as much something to suffer for as something to live for.”
“The feeling of being hurried is not usually the result of living a full life and having no time. It is on the contrary born of a vague fear that we are wasting our life. When we do not do the one thing we ought to do, we have no time for anything else- we are the busiest people in the world.”
“If your life at night is good, you think you have everything”
“Life has no blessing like a prudent friend.”
“Farming in our rural communities is not just an economic industry, but a way of life.”
“When I discovered Buddhism, I realized that Buddhism agrees with that. Buddhism adds something, too, which is that your life also never begins. It's eternal.”
“With the death toll still rising, it will take untold millions of dollars to get back some semblance of life along the nation's Gulf Coast. Most of us will never truly understand what it is like to have your life turned upside down overnight. No place to call your own. To become homeless in a day is unthinkable.”
“People who think dying is the worst thing don't know a thing about life.”
“The Secret Life of Bees,”
“In the shaping of a life, chance and the ability to respond to chance are everything”
“If you take the creation of music and the creation of your own life values as your overall goal, then living becomes a musical process.”
“The dream reveals the reality which conception lags behind. That is the horror of life -- the terror of art.”
“For every life and every act consequence of good and evil can be shown and as in time results of many deeds are blended so good and evil in the end become confounded.”
“A bachelor's life is a fine breakfast, a flat lunch, and a miserable dinner.”
“Passionate hatred can give meaning and purpose to an empty life.”
“He who fights with monsters might take care lest he thereby become a monster. Is not life a hundred times too short for us to bore ourselves?”
“Don't waste you're youth, you'll never get it back”
“Most of the time in married life is taken up by talk.”
“The lamp of genius burns quicker than the lamp of life.”
“Of all the possessions of this life fame is the noblest; when the body has sunk into the dust the great name still lives.”
“A brave man hazards life, but not his conscience”
“Journalism is popular, but it is popular mainly as fiction. Life is one world, and life seen in the newspapers is another.”
“Accept, accept that I have won, whispers the Devil. You can see for yourself that life is unjust, unfair, that suffering is ordinary. Who is stronger? I am, of course. Just despair, my dear, despair. Only tell me that I am strong, that Evil rules.”
“We all feel the riddle of the earth without anyone to point it out. The mystery of life is the plainest part of it.”
“I hope young people will see how I changed my life and how it's up to them to make changes in their own lives to succeed.”
“Country music to me is heartfelt music that speaks to the common man. It is about real life stories with rather simple melodies that the average person can follow. Country music should speak directly and simply about the highs and lows of life. Something that anyone can relate to.”
“Every major question in history is a religious question. It has more effect in molding life than nationalism or a common language.”
“When I was pregnant, I felt filled with life, and I felt really happy. I ate well, and I slept well. I felt much more useful than I'd ever felt before.”
“The great advantage of a hotel is that it is a refuge from home life.”
“All my life, affection has been showered upon me, and every forward step I have made has been taken in spite of it”
“Vice is waste of life. Poverty, obedience and celibacy are the canonical vices.”
“If you are going to let the fear of poverty govern your life, your reward will be that you will eat, but you will not live.”
“I write plays because I like it and because I cannot remember any period in my life when I could have been inventing people and scenes. I am not primarily a story teller : things occur to me first as seems with action and dialogue as moments, develop”
“The day after tomorrow is the third day of the rest of your life.”
“Happiness is the only sanction of life; where happiness fails, existence remains a mad and lamentable experience.”
“Life is not a spectacle or a feast; it is a predicament.”
“The fly that prefers sweetness to a long life may drown in honey”
“America is rather like life. You can usually find in it what you look for. It will probably be interesting, and it is sure to be large.”
“Be regular and orderly in your life, that you may be violent and original in your work.”
“It's no trifle at her time of life to part with a doctor who knows her constitution”
“What do we live for, if not to make life less difficult for each other?”
“I have never had such a nervous day in my life,”
“We are in danger of making our cities places where business goes on but where life, in its real sense, is lost.”
“In real life, unlike in Shakespeare, the sweetness of the rose depends upon the name it bears. Things are not only what they are. They are, in very important respects, what they seem to be.”
“In the morning of life, work; in the mid day give council; in the evening, pray.”
“They say I live a fast life. Maybe I just like a fast life. I wouldn't give it up for anything in the world. It won't last forever, either. But the memories will.”
“Everything in life has an end. Only sausages have two.”
“A politician never forgets the precarious nature of elective life. We have never established a practice of tenure in public office.”
“O Strangers! By Anacreon's tomb who pass, Shed o'er it wine, in life he lov'd his glass”
“Do the things that you f***ing believe in. That's what matters right now.”
“Madam, I have been looking for a person who disliked gravy all my life; let us swear eternal friendship”
“I expected to die. At no time before the trial did I expect to escape with my life. Yet being executed in the gas chamber did not necessarily mean defeat. It could be one more step to bring the community to a higher level of consciousness.”
“Among the smaller duties of life I hardly know any one more important than that of not praising where praise is not due.”
“It's surprising how many persons go through life without ever recognizing that their feelings toward other people are largely determined by their feelings toward themselves, and if you're not comfortable within yourself, you can't be comfortable with others.”
“Crude classifications and false generalizations are the curse of the organized life.”
“Once is a man's life, for one mortal moment, he must make a grab for immorality; if not, he has not lived.”
“Death not merely ends life, it also bestows upon it a silent completeness, snatched from the hazardous flux to which all things human are subject.”
“I've had a few setbacks in my life, but I never gave up”
“Art is parasitic on life, just as criticism is parasitic on art.”
“He who asks of life nothing but the improvement of his own nature… is less liable than anyone else to miss and waste life.”
“It dawned on me that acting was what I wanted to do with my life. Nothing had ever touched my heart like acting did.”
“All that I really have to recount are observations and notes made during the course of my life as a painter. I ask those who will have the patience to read these notes the indulgence usually granted to the writings of painters”
“The best path through life is the highway.”
“The hardest task in a girl's life is to prove to a man that his intentions are serious.”
“I'd rather live as an optimist with some doubt than a pessimist without hope.”
“Life is constantly providing us with new funds, new resources, even when we are reduced to immobility. In life's ledger there is no such thing as frozen assets.”
“To bring the dead to life / Is no great magic. / Few are wholly dead: / Blow on a dead man's embers / And a live flame will start.”
“If the day and the night are such that you greet them with joy, and life emits a fragrance like flowers and sweet-scented herbs, is more elastic, more starry, more immortal -- that is your success. All nature is your congratulation . . .”
“You must get your living by loving, or at least half your life is a failure.”
“It's not the things that you accumulate in life that people will remember you by; it's the gifts you share with others that leave an everlasting impression.”
“A broad margin of leisure is as beautiful in a man's life as in a book. Haste makes waste, no less in life than in housekeeping. Keep the time, observe the hours of the universe, not of the cars.”
“The only wealth is life.”
“The real wise man will listen to the symphony of silence and drink the water of forgetfulness to understand the sense of his emptiness.”
“The only way to success in American public life lies in flattering and kowtowing
to the mob.”
“When young men are beginning life, the most important period, it is often said, is that in which their habits are formed. That is a very important period. But the period in which the ideas of the young are formed and adopted is more important still.”
“the eyes are the window of the heart, and the heart is the house for the soul”
“Living is death; dying is life. We are not what we appear to be. On this side of the grave we are exiles, on that citizens; on this side orphans, on that children;”
“Birds sing after a storm; why shouldn't people feel as free to delight in whatever remains to them?”
“Mirth is the sweet wine of human life. It should be offered sparkling with zestful life unto God.”
“Death must be so beautiful. To lie in the soft brown earth, with the grasses waving above one's head, and listen to silence. To have no yesterday, and no to-morrow. To forget time, to forgive life, to be at peace.”
“One hundred religious persons knit into a unity by careful organizations do not constitute a church any more than eleven dead men make a football team. The first requisite is life, always.”
“I love you, but I love myself more.”
“I'm living my life the way I want it...living it with NO regrets. I'm not sorry for anything I've done, doing, or going to do; said, saying or going to say. Thats who I am and who I'm always going to be.”
“I think space exploration is very important. I think there is very intelligent life on Mars. I believe that Martians are spying on us from the bottom of the ocean.”
“Thy fate is the common fate of all; 
Into each life some rain must fall,
Some days must be dark and dreary.”
“We've gone astray from first principles. We've lost sight of the rule that individual freedom and ingenuity are at the very core of everything that we've accomplished. Government's first duty is to protect the people, not run their lives.”
“We rarely find anyone who can say he has lived a happy life, and who, content with his life, can retire from the world like a satisfied guest.”
“To save a man's life against his will is the same as killing him.”
“life is a dark cave, Jesus is the flash light, the bible is the batteries and your will to turn the flash light on is your faith”
“Life has been your art. You have set yourself to music. Your days are your sonnets.”
“There is nothing worse for mortals than a wandering life.”
“Life is real! Life is earnest! And the grave is not its goal; Dust thou art, to dust returnest, Was not spoken of the soul.”
“Men always try to make virtues of their weaknesses. Fear of death and fear of life both become piety.”
“Life is a gift horse in my opinion.”
“Never ascribe to an opponent motives meaner than your own.”
“In our desire for eternal life we pray for an eternity of our habit and comfort, forgetting that immortality is in repeatedly transcending the definite forms of life in order to pursue the infinite truth of life.”
“You can't depend on your judgment when your imagination is out of focus”
“If life gives you lemons...you know you have a Herculean hangover. Either that, or you're holding Tequilla shots in both hands.”
“To keep your marriage brimming, With love in the loving cup, Whenever you're wrong, admit it; Whenever you're right, shut up”
“Our life is what our thoughts make it. A man will find that as he alters his thoughts toward things and other people, things and other people will alter towards him.”
“Everything in life depends on how that life accepts its limits”
“What I cannot love, I overlook”
“WHen PeopLE Cant ReSPect The DEedS You HAve DOne FOr tHEm.... ItS hiGh Tym yoU taUght THem the GeNuiNE MEaninG oF DIsREsPEct........!!!!!”
“Expectations inspire us to live for every second we pass of our life span.But there are moments which we cannot bare,we cannot be patient and we are desperate to loose our lives.Humanity is the tolerating everything in life and overcome all the difficulties we have to face.The best decision is to postpone to decide on things of life,when desperate thoughts weakens our minds.This makes us to protect humanity in us.”
“The price we pay for the complexity of life is too high. When you think of all the effort you have to put in /telephonic, technological and relational /to alter even the slightest bit of behavior in this strange world we call social life, you are left pining for the straightforwardness of primitive peoples and their physical work.”
“Depression is the inability to construct a future”
“When life is unhappy it is hard to endure, when it is happy it is terrible to think of it ending. Both amount to the same thing in the end.”
“What is line? It is life. A line must live at each point along its course in such a way that the artist's presence makes itself felt above that of the model. With the writer, line takes precedence over form and content. It runs through the words he assembles. It strikes a continuous note unperceived by ear or eye. It is, in a way, the soul's style, and if the line ceases to have a life of its own, if it only describes an arabesque, the soul is missing and the writing dies.”
“The conductor must breathe life into the score. It is you and you alone who must expose it to the understanding, reveal the hidden jewel to the sun at the most flattering angles.”
“Reading, solitude, idleness, a soft and sedentary life, intercourse with women and young people, these are perilous paths for a young man, and these lead him constantly into danger.”
“When late morning rolls around and you're feeling a bit out of sorts, don't worry; you're probably just a little eleven o'clockish.”
“Every man has a right to risk his own life for the preservation of it.”
“The meaning to life. Is to live.”
“If humor and rumor are needed more than faith and truth, then it tells me something about the kind of world we live today.”
“Sometimes, we feel conscious but unable to move our body. The first thing to do is focus in a prayer, then start to wink frequently. By this way, slowly but sure our body can be moved totally by our persistent willpower.”
“I'd just like [Rachel] to keep venturing out into the world. Have more experiences in dealing with real life.”
“On both sides of the Reformation fence the Christian church fought for its life, and nearly everywhere it had the support of the universities, which is to say, of official learning, which is to say, of organized ignorance”
“That man can destroy life is just as miraculous a feat as that he can create it, for life is the miracle, the inexplicable. In the act of destruction, man sets himself above life; he transcends himself as a creature.”
“We journey on in life through varied hazards and misfortunes.”
“One who lacks independent thinking becomes a victim.”
“The word 'Atlantis' makes me think about two things, 'sophisticated' and 'corruption'.”
“We were promised sufferings. They were part of the program. We were even told, ''Blessed are they that mourn.''”
“Less Come To Those Who Rush Things In Life...But More Come To Those Who Wait.”
“Life is a single lane, one way road, try to make a U turn and you will get into an accident.”
“Find something you love to do in life or else you’ll just find yourself relentlessly scrounging around for money like everyone else.”
“We are each our own devil, and we make this world our hell”
“I'm not afraid of storms, for I'm learning how to sail my ship.”
“God is still in control of my Destiny. I’m so much wiser and have come to realize some people come in your life to help you succeed, some come to block your blessing, some come to teach you a lesson , some come to use you, some come to distract you and some come to inspire you to want to be better.”
“where there is passion there is progress”
“We live in the 21st century, the wisest generation yet to come, where you have the freedom to say anything you want, sue anyone and for anything, and wear a trash bag in style.”
“You forgive children and understand the weaknesses of adults while holding them responsible for their actions.”
“We're never so vulnerable than when we trust someone - but paradoxically, if we cannot trust, neither can we find love or joy”
“In this world of change, nothing which comes stays, and nothing which goes is lost.”
“A smart man reads the quotes; a wise man lives by the quotes.”
“In small proportions we just beauties see; And in short measures, life may perfect be”
“Babies don't need fathers, but mothers do. Someone who is taking care of a baby needs to be taken care of.”
“The Complexity of the Human Life becomes double each year”
“the regrets of the past... You can live in them or you can learn from them, get over them and move on with your life... today is the first day of the rest of your life... make the best of it.”
“The longer I live, the more I realize the impact of attitude on life. Attitude to me is more important than facts.... We cannot change our past...we cannot change the fact that people will act in a certain way. We cannot change the inevitable. The only thing we can do is play on the string we have, and that is our attitude. I am convinced that life is 10 percent what happens to me and 90 percent how I react to it. And so it is with you... we are in charge of our attitudes.”
“From there to here, and here to there, funny things are everywhere.”
“The true measure of life is not length, but honesty.”
“You know you're in love when you can't fall asleep because reality is finally better than your dreams.”
“Talent develops in tranquillity, character in the full current of human life.”
“An unused life is an early death.”
“Impartiality is the life of justice, as justice is of all good government”
“Plunge boldly into the thick of life, and seize it where you will, it is always interesting.”
“Life teaches us to be less harsh with ourselves than with others”
“Every step of life shows much caution is required.”
“A useless life is an early death”
“Everything is simpler than you think and at the same time more complex than you imagine”
“Happiness is not the absence of problems; it's the ability to deal with them.”
“Don't sit back and wait for life to happen to you. Have a plan and take the needed steps to create what you want.”
“There is no wealth but life.”
“The empowered mind gravitates towards freedom and helps you break free of all limitations.”
“You can't fully enjoy THESE moments until you let go of past moments.”
“Sometimes you're drowning yourself in your own words.”
“Even when you lose, there is a lesson to be gained.”
“Religion enables us to ignore nothingness and get on with the jobs of life.”
“You are now at a crossroads. This is your opportunity to make the most important decision you will ever make. Forget your past. Who are you now? Who have you decided you really are now? Don't think about who you have been. Who are you now? Who have you decided to become? Make this decision consciously. Make it carefully. Make it powerfully.”
“Let the glow in your heart reflect in your soul.”
“I am all for the short and merry life.”
“By losing your goal, you have lost your way.”
“The fact that I can plant a seed and it becomes a flower, share a bit of knowledge and it becomes another's, smile at someone and receive a smile in return, are to me continual spiritual exercises.”
“I long to accomplish a great and noble task; but it is my chief duty to accomplish small tasks as if they were great and noble”
“If this were the last day of your life, my friend Tell me, what do you think you would do then? Stand up to the blow, that fate has struck upon you? Make the most of all you still have coming to you? or Lay down on the ground and let the tears flow f”
“The hardest battle you're ever going to fight is the battle to be just you.”
“The very man who has argued you down, will sometimes be found, years later, to have been influenced by what you said”
“The most characteristic mark of a great mind is to choose some one important object, and pursue it for life.”
“Fear can only grow in darkness. Once you face fear with light, you win.”
“A lot like me in life,”
“Within ourselves we all have the gifts and talents we need to fulfill the purpose we've been blessed with.”
“Understand the simplicity of life and then you'll be enriched”
“Nobody is perfect but me and you together is.”
“Look around you. Everything changes. Everything on this earth is in a continuous state of evolving, refining, improving, adapting, enhancing…changing. You were not put on this earth to remain stagnant.”
“I had led a private life and wanted to die a private death.”
“I compare human life to a large mansion of many apartments, two of which I can only describe, the doors of the rest being as yet shut upon me”
“The happiest time in any man's life is just after the first divorce”
“The understanding of art depends finally upon one's willingness to extend one's humanity and one's knowledge of human life.”
“The latter part of a man's life is taken up in curing the follies, prejudices, and false opinions he had contracted in the former.”
“Life is to be lived, not controlled, and humanity is won by continuing to play in face of certain defeat.”
“Shakespeare led a life of allegory; his works are the comments on it.”
“Personal reward is at the epicenter of behavior.”
“Once you make a decision, the universe conspires to make it happen.”
“Life is Now.”
“To live a life half-dead, a living death”
“There is love of course. And then there's life, its enemy.”
“I dreamed of meeting prince charming but the Prince of Peace swept me off my feet.”
“Our entire life consists ultimately in accepting ourselves as we are”
“You can never be alone, there's always someone with you, yourself.”
“Our firmest convictions are apt to be the most suspect, they mark our limitations and our bounds. Life is a pretty thing unless it is moved by the indomitable urge to extend its boundaries.”
“A good book is the precious lifeblood of a master spirit, embalmed and treasured up on purpose to a life beyond life.”
“Bread is the staff of life”
“One of the secrets of a happy life is continuous small treats”
“Superstition is the poetry of life.”
“My Catholic background has certainly affected the way I view life and it has become integral to everything I do. It has given me a belief in things like structure, marriage, family, compassion for the poor, the importance of community - but I don't like to wear religion on my sleeve, I prefer to have it integrated into what I do.”
“The important question is not what will yield to man a few scattered pleasures, but what will render his life happy on the whole amount.”
“Repetition is the reality and the seriousness of life.”
“Most people go through life dreading they'll have a traumatic experience. Freaks were born with their trauma. They've already passed their test in life. They're aristocrats.”
“Love is not just about a feeling, it is a decision.”
“How far you think you go get with just selling your ass to mens magazines and music videos? Not far at all.. What is your fall back plan? Are you setting a path for others? Are you making a difference? Do you truly love what you do? Are you the business or are you working for the business? Think about it models”
“Play with life, laugh with life, dance lightly with life, and smile at the riddles of life, knowing that life’s only true lessons are writ small in the margin.”
“Change is a welcomed friend...but only if it is invited.”
“If you are scared you son might be gay, build a big baking soda and vinegar volcano. When you mix the two, pay very careful attention. If your son is sucking dick while this happens, then he is gay.”
“Live your life that the fear of death can never enter your heart.”
“A superior man is modest in his speech, but exceeds in his actions.”
“We cannot hoard life as we can money. When a person tries to be a miser of his health, he usually makes himself miserable. Mental talents, if buried and not used, tend to deteriorate. Whoever would save his memory by not using it will lose it.”
“All our inventions have endowed material forces with intellectual life, and degraded human life into a material force.”
“People – most of – live in a sort of conformity, a “that's the way it is”. You have to break, many times you have to, away from that murky fog, to grab life by its reins, by its rudder, to bring it into light...”
“"When life gives you a hundred reasons to cry, show life that you have a thousand reasons to smile.”
“There are books which take rank in your life with parents and lovers and passionate experiences, so medicinal, so stringent, so revolutionary, so authoritative.”
“The thing you hate most about yourself is the most interesting thing about you because it is worth hatred”
“One of the simple but genuine pleasures in life is getting up in the morning and hurrying to a mousetrap you set the night before.”
“There are no days in life so memorable as those which vibrated to some stroke of the imagination.”
“It literally would've been the rest of my life completely destroyed, ... Some very, very bad things go through your mind, from suicide - it's totally hopeless. There's nothing you can do.”
“To say 'I love you' one must first be able to say the 'I.'”
“I hate procrastinating, but it's just so much easier not doing anything.”
“My chief want in life is someone who shall make me do what I can”
“Great men, great nations, have not been boasters and buffoons, but perceivers of the terror of life, and have manned themselves to face it”
“People suffer all their life long, under the foolish superstition that they can be cheated. But it is impossible for a person to be cheated by anyone but himself.”
“The poisons are our principal medicines, which kill the disease and save the life.”
“Newspapers have roughly the same relationship to life as fortune-tellers to metaphysics”
“Life too near paralyses art.”
“Money, which represents the prose of life, and which is hardly spoken of in parlors without an apology, is, in its effects and laws, as beautiful as roses.”
“You're missing out if you think i'm nothing worth trying for, my beauty ain't the only thing i consist of, i'm ready to live my life by forgiving my past and remembering i am who i am because of it all, you'll see that perfection will never be found...Don't ever forget to love yourself cause what others think of you is only a matter of judgement and opinion♥!!*”
“The more everybody lives, the more life reveals to him; what was unknown becomes known.”
“If he be really and seriously seeking to live a good life, the first thing from which he will abstain will always be the use of animal food, because ... its use is simply immoral, as it involves the performance of an act which is contrary to the moral feeling - killing.”
“In the twentieth century, death terrifies men less than the absence of real life. All these dead, mechanized, specialized actions, stealing a little bit of life a thousand times a day until the mind and body are exhausted. . .”
“You can't get out of life alive”
“I touched emotions I've never tapped in my entire life. I've heard people say, 'I hope this movie doesn't glamorise drugs...”
“It is when you are most comfortable that disaster will strike.”
“Music has always gotten me through life, particularly honest, real music.”
“You lie your biggest lie when you lie to yourself ..”
“Well, I'm somebody who is just living...living life, and if I get frustrated by something, then I like to try to put it right,”
“We mortals cross the ocean of this world Each in his average cabin of a life”
“You are unrepeatable. There is a magic about you that is all your own...”
“IF WHAT YOU HAVE DONE IN THE PAST IS REGRETTABLE ,THEN MAKE THE FUTURE MORE MEANINGFUL”
“The more I connect with the self within, the easier it gets for me to connect with the world outside.”
“People say that life is the thing, but I prefer reading.”
“Whatever you do, do with all your might”
“Effective problem solvers must exhibit patience combined with resolve — To be an effective problem solver one must overcome obstacles to communication.”
“Today is a beautiful day in the chain of life, tomorrow there may be a new song on the radio, a new programme on the telly, a new scent, a new taste, a new sight, or new person may come into your life. Today is tomorrows dream, it shall soon become a memory. So embrace todays every hour....”
“Problems happen—that is the very nature of the world scene—they also should be viewed as personal and professional opportunities.”
“Every day confirms my opinion on the superiority of a vicious life -- and if Virtue is not its own reward I don't know any other stipend annexed to it.”
“The poor dog, in life the firmest friend, The first to welcome, foremost to defend”
“Every year of my life I grow more convinced that it is wisest and best to fix our attention on the beautiful and the good, and dwell as little as possible on the evil and the false.”
“I have had, and may have still, a thousand friends, as they are called, in life, who are like one's partners in the waltz of this world /not much remembered when the ball is over.”
“Sometimes, a woman filled with all sorts of uncertainties in most of the areas of life and emotion, will have her only confidence and independence in her fashion-sense. I'm sure this is a misfortune. Fashion should not be expected to serve in the stead of courage or character.”
“I have learned silence from the talkative, tolerance from the intolerant, and kindness from the unkind; yet strangely, I am ungrateful to these teachers”
“I'd rather give my life than be afraid to give it.”
“The ideal friendship is to feel as one while remaining two.”
“Life is a dream; when we sleep we are awake, and when awake we sleep”
“Being born is certain, Death will come, But whats in between is the adventure, It starts when you take the risk.”
“a heart doesn't think or speak it does and feels in whatever way it pleases”
“There is no course of life so weak and Scottish as that which is managed by orders, method, and discipline”
“Verily, veliry, I say unto you, he that heareth my word, and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation; but is passed from death unto life. John 5:24”
“Those who have compared our life to a dream were right... We sleeping wake, and waking sleep.”
“Everyone is fake, most just haven't realized what part of themselves is synthetic.”
“Life isn't what it seems but together we can find out what it means.”
“It is a rare life that remains orderly even in private”
“Each day is born with a sunrise and ends in a sunset, the same way we open our eyes to see the light, and close them to hear the dark. You have no control over how your story begins or ends. But by now, you should know that all things have an ending. Every spark returns to darkness. Every sound returns to silence. Every flower returns to sleep with the earth. The journey of the sun and moon is predictable. But yours, is your ultimate ART.”
“Life is constantly teaching us that we are mirrors of one another and that no one is an island!”
“We need to learn ourselves before we can understand what really annoys us!”
“Everybody is fighting a hard battle that you know nothing about, never give up with yours.”
“Everything meaningful encounters resistance, don't get scared of whatever comes your way, just go with the right strategy and plan, their you'll overcome it at last.”
“Music is my life, professionally, for nearly 60 years. To be recognized by the academy is still the highest honor.”
“Love to his soul gave eyes; he knew things are not as they seem. The dream is his real life; the world around him is the dream.”
“sometimes the hardest thing about life is looking up at the stars and seeing how far you've come and not knowing what can become of you in the end”
“We cannot put off living until we are ready. The most salient characteristic of life is its coerciveness: it is always urgent, 'here and now,' without any possible postponement. Life is fired at us point-blank.”
“There is power, value, happiness and fulfillment in a life of purpose.”
“I'm not going to keep boxing. It's part of my past and now I want to live my life.”
“(Wrestling) teaches you nothing comes easy. Nothing in life comes easy, so you have to work at it.”
“Married life requires shared mystery even when all the facts are known.”
““Each day wake up and ask yourself what will make you feel most alive that day.””
“There needs to be bolder thinking, ... on how to measure the quality of life of men and women in the work force. Currently, success is measured by material advancements. We need to readjust the definition of success to account for time outside of work and satisfaction of life, not just the dollars-and-cents bottom line.”
“Money doesn't change men, it merely unmasks them. If a man is naturally selfish or arrogant or greedy, the money brings that out, that's all.”
“None meet life honestly and few heroically.”
“Never go tapping into the lives of others like you know them and their story! Their story is not yours, tell yours, for that is all you know.”
“We will have life. We will have commerce. We will have people getting back into their normal modes of operation.”
“If you nurture your mind, body, and spirit, your time will expand. You will gain a new perspective that will allow you to accomplish much more.”
“Nothing good comes in life or athletics unless a lot of hard work has preceded the effort. Only temporary success is achieved by taking short cuts.”
“As a day well spent brings blessed sleep, so a life well spent brings a blessed death.”
“Fear freezes ones will to grow, the flame of truth is the only thing that will revive this frozen state of being.”
“If I had my life over again I should form the habit of nightly composing myself to thoughts of death. I would practice, as it were, the remembrance of death. There is no other practice which so intensifies life. Death, when it approaches, ought not to take one by surprise. It should be part of the full expectancy of life. Without an ever-present sense of death life is insipid. You might as well live on the whites of eggs.”
“Never go tapping into the lives of others like you know them and their story! Their story is not yours, tell yours, for that is all you know.”
“All life is a manifestation of the spirit, the manifestation of love.”
“It's ironic, but until you can free those final monsters within the jungle of yourself, your life, your soul is up for grabs.”
“Life is growth. If we stop growing, technically and spiritually, we are as good as dead.”
“My philosophy of life is that if we make up our mind what we are going to make of our lives, then work hard toward that goal, we never lose -- somehow we win out”
“Learn how to live, and you'll know how to die; learn how to die, and you'll learn how to live.”
“I have to be careful what I ask for in life, 'cause I always seem to get it! The good thing is, I've got a purpose now, whereas before my purpose was to go out and party.”
“I'm a bit hesitant to do anything because I'm actually kind of lazy and I'd like an easier life from now on. The world's a massive place with lots of early mornings and late starts when you're working.”
“To bare our souls is all we ask, to give all we have to life and the beings surrounding us. Here the nature spirits are intense and we appreciate them, make offerings to them - these nature spirits who call us here - sealing our fate with each other, celebrating our love.”
“First become a winner In life. Then it's easier to become a winner on the field.”
“sadness is not to make you cry but to make you fight”
“It's a part of my life, ... I've been listening to him for 30 odd years.”
“For all of us who are alive, life is the real issue. Yet so often we judge our existence by the things that happen to us—by whether things are going our way or not. Sometimes we feel strong—strong enough to dictate our future. Sometimes we feel that we can make things happen. Then there are times when we feel totally helpless. But through all the dramas and bumps, there is life. There is the very powerful, very existence of every single human being”
“In my plays I want to look at life - at the commonplace of existence-as if we had just turned a corner and run into it for the first time.”
“One must be fond of people and trust them if one is not to make a mess of life.”
“I've never struck a woman in my life, not even my own mother.”
“A woman's whole life is a history of the affections. The heart is her world: it is there her ambition strives for empire; it is there her avarice seeks for hidden treasures. She sends forth her sympathies on adventure; she embarks her whole soul on the traffic of affection; and if shipwrecked, her case is hopeless -- for it is a bankruptcy of the heart.”
“I never smoked a cigar in my life until I was nine.”
“If you need someone to explain morality to you, then you likely have little of it to draw from.”
“Live it simple, make it simple, and say it simple, the obvious key for happiness which life is all about. Problems begin when we use our overrated brains to explain something we do not fully comprehend and make ourselves experts.”
“I am convinced that it is not the fear of death, of our lives ending that haunts our sleep so much as the fear... that as far as the world is concerned, we might as well never have lived.”
“Overconfidence will drown you in the sea of reality.”
“I'd say it's been my biggest problem all my life... it's money. It takes a lot of money to make these dreams come true.”
“You did what you did..., then you'll do more.”
“For most men, life is a search for the proper manila envelope in which to get themselves filed”
“Why, in the presence of Death. Do we then, seek the meaning of Life.”
“The most important of life's battles is the one we fight daily in the silent chambers of the soul.”
“All discarded lovers should be given a second chance, but with somebody else.”
“This life is worth living, we can say, since it is what we make it.”
“If this life be not a real fight, in which something is eternally gained for the universe by success, it is no better than a game of private theatricals from which one may withdraw at will. But it feels like a real fight.”
“Is life worth living? It all depends on the liver.”
“In my travels I have found that those who keep Heaven in view remain serene and cheerful in the darkest day. If the glories of Heaven were more real to us, if we lived less for material things and more for things eternal and spiritual, we would be less easily disturbed by this present life.”
“From the point of view of morals, life seems to he divided into two periods; in the first we indulge, in the second we preach”
“Learn to admire rightly; the great pleasure of life is that.”
“Let a man who has to make his fortune in life remember this maxim: Attacking is the only secret. Dare and the world yields, or if it beats you sometimes, dare it again and you will succeed.”
“I do not set my life at a pin's fee.
And for my soul, what can it do to that,
Being a thing immortal as itself?”
“The true pleasure of life is to live with your inferiors.”
“I bear a charmed life.”
“For mine own part,
I could be well content
To entertain the lag-end of my life
With quiet hours.”
“Freedom has its life in the hearts, the actions, the spirit of men and so it must be daily earned and refreshed - else like a flower cut from its life-giving roots, it will wither and die.”
“My desolation does begin to make
A better life.”
“For the life to come, I sleep out the thought of it.”
“Poetry is a way of taking life by the throat.”
“Some pray to marry the man they love, my prayer will somewhat vary: I humbly pray to heaven above that I love the man I marry.”
“I have been so misused by chaste men with one wife, that I would live with satyrs all my life”
“I've learned that we cannot forget or throw away our past, But we must not allow our past to control us either. We must learn and grow from our past failures, Disappointments, pains and experiences. Reset our goals and priorities... and move forward. Start TODAY, by Un-Ty-ing the knots that LIMIT you”
“Of chess it has been said that life is not long enough for it, but that is the fault of life, not chess”
“Life accumulates. The difference of accumulating days that we are proud of versus days for which we are regretful is in controlling our thoughts in each moment.”
“It's not the drugs that mess up your life, it's the reason you take the drugs that mess up your life.”
“When you love people and have the desire to make a profound, positive impact
upon the world, then will you have accomplished the meaning to live.”
“Marriage, for a woman at least, hampers the two things that made life to me glorious - friendship and learning.”
“Although it hath pleased God to hasten my death by you, by whom my life should rather have been lengthened, yet can I patiently take it, that I yield God more hearty thanks for shortening my woeful days.”
“A change of pace adds renewed enthusiasm to one’s mind. Add travel and adventure, and the mind discovers awe”
“We don't know anything about racism. We've never experienced it. If words can make a difference in your life for seven minutes, how would it affect you if you heard this every day of your life?”
“You know, I'm just trying to matter and live a good life and make work that means something to somebody, and you have all made me feel that I have accomplished that tonight. So thank you so much for this honor.”
“Look at life through the windshield, not the rear-view mirror”
“The bad times I can handle. It's the good times that drive me crazy. When is the other shoe going to drop?”
“"Life is done, but what is death?" Then, in answer to the King, Fell a sunbeam on his ring, Showing by a heavenly ray, "Even this shall pass away”
“We must accept life for what it actually is - a challenge to our quality without which we should never know of what stuff we are made, or grow to our full stature.”
“Anyone can carry his burden, however hard, until nightfall. Anyone can do his work, however hard, for one day. Anyone can live sweetly, patiently, lovingly, purely, till the sun goes down. And this is all life really means.”
“A wife lasts only for the length of the marriage, but an ex-wife is there for the rest of your life”
“Life is just a blank slate, what matters most is what you write on it”
“If you do not breathe through writing, if you do not cry out in writing, or sing in writing, then don't write, because our culture has no use for it.”
“Our life is like a block of ice which is melting away every moment. Before it spends itself, devote it to the service of others.”
“Even death is not to be feared by one who has lived wisely.”
“Marriage means your whole life, a whole lifetime together, not just a few days, or a few weeks, or a few years.”
“Fear closes us down, play helps the spirit flourish”
“Out of life's school of war: What does not destroy me, makes me stronger”
“Never before in my political life have I been taken so seriously as woman,”
“I've gotten very good at scheduling my life, scheduling the scene and preparing myself for knowing, saving the energy, consuming the energy, knowing when to go for it and having the available reserves to be able to do that. You have to think about that, because it's endurance.”
“The married state, with and without the affection suitable to it, is the completest image of heaven and hell we are capable of receiving in this life”
“Most people are too busy living life ever to put life in their living”
“This suspense is terrible. I hope it will last.”
“If you can spend a perfectly useless afternoon in a perfectly useless manner, you have learned how to live.”
“Love never claims, it ever gives; love never suffers, never resents, never revenges itself. Where there is love there is life; hatred leads to destruction.”
“The annoyance you ignore today only gets worse tomorrow. Solve it now.”
“They sin who tell us Love can die: with Life all other passions fly, all others are but vanity.”
“All difficult things have their origin in that which is easy, and great things in that which is small.”
“Life for rent means that my life isn't really my own, I only rented it for a while, but if I don't manage to buy it, to own it, then nothing of what I think is mine is really mine.”
“Defamation is becoming a necessity of life; inasmuch as a dish of tea in the morning or evening cannot be digested without this stimulant”
“Shelf-life for a regular video game usually is about three to five years, and that's it.”
“Our greatest happiness does not depend on the condition of life in which chance has placed us, but is always the result of a good conscience, good health, occupation and freedom in all just pursuits.”
“We have to improve life, not just for those who have the most skills and those who know how to manipulate the system. But also for and with those who often have so much to give but never get the opportunity.”
“There's no life like the life I've lived. You're free like a cloud floating up in the sky.”
“My private measure of success is daily. If this were to be the last day of my life would I be content with it? To live in a harmonious balance of commitments and pleasures is what I strive for.”
“Life, death and rebirth are inevitable. ”
“You can't rely on bringing people downtown; you have to put them there, ... The Death and Life of Great American Cities.”
“Judges get paid to judge, stop wasting your time doing their job.”
“A successful life is one that is lived through understanding and pursuing one's own path, not chasing after the dreams of others.”
“Life is like eating artichokes, you have got to go through so much to get so little”
“To have GOALS is like having FAITH, you know they exist, you know they are essential and you know that they guide you ... But you can't touch them see them or feel them, so have FAITH, have GOALS.”
“Dear Life: YOU SUCK!!”
“Do not try to live forever. You will not succeed.”
“Be like the sun and meadow, which are not in the least concerned about the coming winter.”
“Life, the album, came about because I believe that life is not one-dimensional,”
“Maybe there are no right moments, right guys, right answers...maybe you just have to say whats in your heart!”
“I have no regrets, real regrets about any darn thing... I think second-guessing one's self and your life is the most futile thing in the world.”
“When we allow our conscience to be our guide, then our purpose in life will be fullfilled.”
“Let him who is without sin cast the first stone.”
“People will be surprised at our version of Shakespeare's life.”
“We are all leaves. We can choose to stick to the tree and eventually wither and die, or we can break off, have a helluva ride and land somewhere amazing.”
“Only with the truth there is the beginning
of a different kind of life ~
of Joy, of Bliss, of Dance.
Then your whole being is full of Songs”
“I want to be thoroughly used up when I die, for the harder I work, the more I live. I rejoice in life for its own sake. Life is no “brief candle” to me. It is a sort of splendid torch which I have got hold of for the moment, and I want to make it burn as brightly as possible before handing it on to future generations.”
“I want them "dunked"-plunged deeply into life, brought up gasping and dripping, and returned to us humble and ready to learn.”
“It's been real weird. It wasn't how I expected my life to turn out. Especially, mainly pertaining to the show. It never crossed my mind that one day I'm gonna be big and famous and have my own TV show, you know?”
“To make the right choices in life, you have to get in touch with your soul. To do
this, you need to experience solitude, which most people are afraid of, because in
the silence you hear the truth and know the solutions.”
“I'm at a period in my life when I'm figuring out my idea of who I am and what I want and how to hold onto love -- all that big stuff. And I'm starting to realize that it can happen at any age. I know people who are in their 50s who are figuring out what they want and who they are, and I think it's great. It's like you're always approaching life as a beginner.”
“Some people die at 25 and aren't buried until 75.”
“Business is the salt of life”
“In the last several years, piracy has been the dominant issue that has consumed my life,”
“I am not the type who sits back and accepts life. That's someone else not me.”
“We think too much and feel too little.”
“Judging the existence by comparison is not always the best pathway to progress.”
“Life is rather a state of embryo, a preparation for life; a man is not completely born till he has passed through death”
“It does not do to dwell on dreams and forget to live, remember that.
-Albus Dumbledore to Harry Potter-”
“I have great hopes that we shall love each other all our lives as much as if we had never married at all.”
“the most wasted day in life is,the day in whichwe have not laughed”
“Creative people must entertain lots of silly ideas in order to receive the occasional strokes of genius”
“Let the beauty of what you love be what you do.”
“The little trouble in the world that is not due to love is due to friendship”
“To finish the moment, to find the journey's end in every step of the road, to live the greatest number of good hours, is wisdom”
“It's possible to love a human being if you don't know them too well.”
“But, after all, one cannot, at sixty-two, look back down the corridor of one's life and not have some doubts about the journey one has made. The doors which one opened are now all closed. The doors one did not dare open remain shut. The corridor is dark; only ahead is lighter. So one turns and proceeds in that direction. To go back is madness. To turn left or right, at this stage, is both exhausting and dangerous.”
“It feels good. It really does. It feels good because you want the film to have a life. You want it to put its roots down and become a fixture of the culture, and these are indicators that the film will last and that it will reach people and that's what you hope for, so I'm really pleased about it.”
“At one point in your life, you'll have the thing you want or the reasons why you don't.”
“You do not become friends by chance, you become friends because you choose to be.”
“Christianity is a world that is a great sculptor's shop. We are the statues and there a rumor going around the shop that some of us are some day going to come to life.”
“When new turns of behavior cease to appear in the life of the individual, its behavior ceases to be intelligent.”
“Womens brains are like a 9 by 10 rubiks cube, they're confusing.”
“The search for wisdom is a great challenge; to act on wisdom is an even greater challenge.”
“Few are those who see with their own eyes and feel with their own hearts.”
“Do as little harm to others as you can; make any sacrifice for your true friends; be responsible for yourself and ask nothing of others; and grab all the fun you can. Don't give much thought to yesterday, don't worry about tomorrow, live in the moment, and trust that your existence has meaning even when the world seems to be all blind chance and chaos. When life lands a hammer blow in your face, do your best to respond to the hammer as if it had been a cream pie. Sometimes black humor is the only kind we can summon, but even dark laughter can sustain.”
“[Life philosophy:] I don't really care what people think, ... I just do my own thing. ... I like being loud and letting people know I'm there.”
“life is very short ,so break silly rules.........”
“Sound, sound the clarion, fill the fife, Throughout the sensual world proclaim, One crowded hour of glorious life, Is worth an age without a name”
“Life has never been easy. Nor is it meant to be. It is a matter of being joyous in the face of sorrow.”
“Everywhere in life the true question is, not what we have gained, but what we do.”
“There is only one competition in life, and that is the race with time to realize your potential in only one lifetime.”
“All that counts in life is intention.”
“Life is short and if you're looking for extension, you had best do well. 'Cause there's good deeds and then there's good intention, and they're as far apart as Heaven and Hell.”
“If you thought trying to remember someone was a toughie, give forgetting a shot.”
“I did enter into this relationship thinking she and I could have a life together. I was dead wrong.”
“Remember, the lips that are kissing your ass are hiding teeth behind them.”
“My mother was the most beautiful woman I ever saw. All I am I owe to my mother. I attribute all my success in life to the moral, intellectual and physical education I received from her.”
“As we advance in life, we learn the limits of our abilities.”
“In the end, everything is a gag.”
“Don’t you love me anymore? Don’t I look beautiful to you anymore? Will you like me just as much if I become fat after marriage? The human mind is so fickle, it needs constant reassurance.”
“It is my life,”
“Action may not always bring happiness; but there is no happiness without action”
“`Come, come,' said Tom's father, `at your time of life, / There's no longer excuse for thus playing the rake - / It is time you should think, boy, of taking a wife' - `Why, so it is, father - whose wife shall I take?'”
“To help a friend in need is easy, but to give him your time is not always opportune.”
“If you want to be happy for a year, plant a garden; If you want to be happy for life, plant a tree.”
“We touched on it a bit on our last album [ The Chronicles of Life and Death ], and there will definitely be a few songs on the new record that will go in that direction.”
“If you can't make it better, you can laugh at it.”
“A great proportion of the wretchedness which has embittered married life, has originated in a negligence of trifles”
“If you are defeated today don't let yourself down,it will be balanced by the success tomorrow.Conservation of energy.”
“The real difficulty is always in ourselves,
not in our surroundings.”
“I love the irony - I've spent over 400 hours of my life looking for comets, and haven't found anything, and now, suddenly, when I'm not looking for one, I get one dumped in my lap.”
“Those without wisdom can see as well as a blind man those without wisdom think as much as a madman.”
“From mothers come the first steps of a child, and the ideals that will shape a hero. So important is the role of mothers in our society, yet they are so unappreciated.”
“Happiness belongs to the self-sufficient”
“I got on my knees, and I asked God to take my life.”
“We are either progressing or retrograding all the while. There is no such thing as remaining stationary in this life.”
“In how many lives does Love really play a dominant part? The average taxpayer is no more capable of a 'grand passion' than of a grand opera”
“It's a life and death issue. We're losing six people a day from prescription drug abuse.”
“Glorify who you are today, do not condemn who you were yesterday, and dream of who you can be tomorrow.”
“I am prepared to meet anyone, but whether anyone is prepared for the great ordeal of meeting me is another matter.”
“The greatest discovery of my generation is that man can alter his life simply by altering his attitude of mind.”
“Sitting back and observing and being away like I was kind of made me appreciate the better things in life and the smaller things in life that I took for granted in the past, ... I am more focused.”
“Keep on sowing your seed, for you never know which will grow -- perhaps it all will.”
“He that would live in peace and at ease, Must not speak all he knows, nor judge all he sees”
“It is amazing what you can accomplish if you do not care who gets the credit.”
“An eye for an eye leaves everybody blind.”
“Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.”
“Life is this simple: We are living in a world that is absolutely transparent and God is shining through it all the time. This is not just a fable or a nice story. It is true. If we abandon ourselves to God and forget ourselves, we see it sometimes, and we see it maybe frequently. God shows Himself everywhere, in everything - in people and in things and in nature and in events. It becomes very obvious that He is everywhere and in everything and we cannot be without Him. It's impossible. It's simply impossible. The only thing is that we don't see it.”
“You will never be happy if you continue to search for what happiness consists of. You will never live if you are looking for the meaning of life.”
“There's gonna be some stuff you gonna see that's gonna make it hard To smile in the future, but through whatever you see, Through all the rain and all the pain, you gotta keep your sense of humour. you gotta be able to smile through all this bullshit”
“Man does not weave this web of life. He is merely a strand of it. Whatever he does to the web, he does to himself.”
“How do you know if your mission in life is finished? If you're still alive, it isn't.”
“I wish i had 5 lives, with 5 different families, and 5 different jobs, coming from 5 different nations, but in these 5 lives, my true love is for but 1.”
“People lose people, we lose things in our life as we're constantly growing and changing. That's what life is is change, and a lot of that is loss. It's what you gain from that loss that makes life.”
“In a day,when you dont come across any problems,then you can be sure that you are travelling in the wrong path...”
“I loved doing Elly May. She was a slice out of my own life. And of course the The Beverly Hillbillies was a story about the American Dream. No matter who tried to slicker us or take advantage of us, we always came out on top. We were never the losers. So the right attitude was important. We set a good examples. The Hillbillies set high standards.”
“The artist, depicting man disdainful of the storm and stress of life, is no less reconciling and healing than the poet who, while endowing Nature and Humanity, rejoices in its measureless superiority to human passions and human sorrows”
“The worst thing that can happen to a man is to lose his money, the next worst his health, the next worst his reputation”
“Life is supposed to be a series of peaks and valleys. The secret is to keep the valleys from becoming grand Canyons.”
“The real happiness of life is in doing 'karma'. ”
“A hundred years from now it will not matter what my bank account was, the sort of house I lived in, or the kind of car I drove...but the world may be different because I was important in the life of a child.”
“Lethargy can prove fatal for life. ”
“My Glass is not half empty, my Glass is not half full, my Glass is Cracked!”
“I believe you are your work. Don't trade the stuff of your life, time, for nothing more than dollars. That's a rotten bargain.”
“Even a happy life cannot be without a measure of darkness, and the word happiness would lose its meaning if it were not balanced by sadness.”
“The small courtesies sweeten life; the greater ennoble it.”
“We must look for ways to be an active force in our own lives. We must take charge of our own destinies, design a life of substance and truly begin to live our dreams.”
“I was lucky to be able to call Christopher Reeve a friend.His passion for life and for improving the lives of all Americans serves an inspiration to all of us. He may have played the character of Superman in the movies, but he lived the role of a superman through his life.”
“It is not the strongest of the species that survives, nor the most intelligent that survives. It is the one that is the most adaptable to change.”
“Glorious is the tumult of the waves that crash against a vessel, preparing it for the seas of life.”
“Friendship has its illusions no less than love.”
“Life is given for wisdom, and yet we are not wise; for goodness, and we are not good; for overcoming evil, and evil remains; for patience and sympathy and love, and yet we are fretful and hard and weak and selfish. We are keyed not to attainment, but to the struggle toward it.”
“Most men lead lives of quiet desperation and go to the grave with the song still in them.”
“Lessons that come easy are not lessons at all. They are gracious acts of luck. Yet lessons learned the hard way are lessons never forgotten.”
“The world is my country, all mankind are my brethren, and to do good is my religion.”
“I reside in my own universe. My thoughts are called crazy by most, accepted by few. I'm obviously on the right path...”
“The best part of married life is the fights. The rests is merely so.”
“At the very beginning, I said my life and Playboy are a Rorschach test. It's a culmination of the dreams and fantasies and prejudices you bring to the table,”
“Young men make great mistakes in life; for one thing, they idealize love too much.”
“If a man needs an elaborate tombstone in order to remain in the memory of his country, it is clear that his living at all was an act of absolute superfluity.”
“There are things in life that we all take for granted.
Like our family, friends, food, shelter, and love.
We don't have a clue until our lives are abandoned.
Just make sure to give thanks to the creator above.
The seed of life grows, with no proof that it was planted.
Satan tried to tear it up, but it wouldn't budge.
The roots were tightly placed in Gods right hand and.
Satan was furious only left with a grudge.”
“Money is only a human invention. I get paid for my work, it's a system of trade, but it's not my purpose and reason for living.”
“A man's very highest moment is, I have no doubt at all, when he kneels in the dust, and beats his breast, and tells all the sins of his life.”
“Truth rarely shines yet lies seem to illuminate into traditions,Once we are HONEST, Only then can we move forward.”
“I don't want to earn my living; I want to live.”
“Life is 10% of what happens to me and 90% of how I react to it.”
“When I was writing it, I was remembering how hard it was to be a 16-year-old in high school. I always wanted to be an artist, so I was this loner kid who just got drunk all the time. I only had one real friend. There was a girl I really liked, and she ended up taking really sleazy photographs with her boyfriend, and that really crushed me, I was just swimming in this pit of despair, jealousy and alcoholism.”
“I have very strong feelings about how you lead your life. You always look ahead, you never look back.”
“The Jersey mentality is: I work, I drink, I stay up all night, I try to meet a girl, it's a waste of time.”
“Money is only a human invention. I get paid for my work, it's a system of trade, but it's not my purpose and reason for living.”
“But there comes a moment in everybody's life when he must decide whether he'll live among the human beings or not -- a fool among fools or a fool alone.”
“I would venture a guess that
Everybody has a life to love,
they just haven't uncovered the beauty of
what their life experience has to offer yet.
Notice
the
word,
'Yet.'”
“In my ideal life, I am ... If there's something on the list that I am not, I must ask myself if it's really me. And if it is, I must ask myself why I'm not manifesting it. When I see what's standing in my way, I can move beyond it.”
“Bread that this house may never know hunger, salt that life may always have flavor.”
“Life is like a game of cards. The hand that is dealt you represents determinism;
the way you play it is free will.”
“Years ago I used to think it was possible for a novelist to alter the inner life of the culture. Now bomb-makers and gunman have taken that territory. They make raids on human consciousness. What writers used to do before we were all incorporated.”
“What we call education and culture is for the most part nothing but the substitution of reading for experience, of literature for life, of the obsolete fictitious for the contemporary real.”
“Life is what it is. We are not the ones who designed it, but we sure can color it in the hues that we choose.”
“Get dealt a set of cards in life, and just deal with them........no problem.”
“Life is not a matter of holding good cards, but sometimes, playing a poor hand well.”
“It was from an old friend who . thought he was dying. Anyway, he said, 'Life and death issues don't come along that often, thank God, so don't treat everything like it's life or death. Go easier.'”
“If you don't want to start changing yourself, don't wonder why you're miserable”
“Teacher, tender comrade, wife, A fellow-farer true through life”
“love to travel, But hate to arrive”
“it is not neccessary to wear a mask when interacting with other people.
If you tell the truth even if it hurts, you get the feeling of living to the maximum of your expectations and it feels just great.”
“At the moment of conception we are all the same. We live our lives fighting to rise above the rest. However in the end, at the moment of death, we all become the same again, dead.”
“I have never seen the slightest scientific proof of the religious theories of heaven and hell, of future life for individuals, or of a personal God”
““Some things in life are like being tied to the tracks and watching the train coming.... You can only struggle against the enevitible.””
“If you only do what you know you can do- you never do very much.”
“Seize the moment. Remember all those women on the 'Titanic' who waved off the dessert cart.”
“One must have to get wet and cross the river's troubled waters in order to get to the other side, where the wood that will keep him safe, sheltered and warm will be found...”
“Life is a work in progress that never is complete. We learn a different lesson from each experience we meet.”
“I have been looking forward to this age of my life for a long time. In my twenties, I marked the days on the calendar - I was sick of playing high-school kids. I liked being a teenager, but I would not go back for all the tea in China. I think part of maturity is knowing who you are. If people don't like it, it is not going to affect how I feel.”
“Relationships last a helluva lot longer and feel alot better than orgasms do. Pick the one that sounds better.”
“I'd rather lose myself in passion than lose my passion.”
“I think quite often a fate worse than death is life - for lots of people.”
“A lifestyle is what you pay for; a life is what pays you.”
“I'm a little banged-up. It would be great to go out and not have any injuries, but in life, you have adversities,”
““The only thing in this world that matters is life, because without life, nothing else will matter.””
“To be wholly devoted to some intellectual exercise is to have succeeded in life.”
“Don't play me,play lotto,you have a better chance of winning.”
“I like writing because you can make things happen and turn out the way they never do in real life.”
“But the whole point of liberation is that you get out. Restructure your life. Act by yourself.”
“The day when it all ends. Will you be with me or will you be gone and leave me alone. On that day, will my life be great or miserable?”
“If I had my life to live over, I would perhaps have more actual troubles but I'd have fewer imaginary ones.”
“Rarely does anyone speak of fear for his own life, as if an unspoken etiquette prevails.”
“You have a brush in one hand and paint in the other. You just need to realize that you are the Artist of your own destiny. The outcome of such a realization will transform the road ahead of you into canvas, waiting only for you to start painting.”
“Have to and get to—both are choices. One is negative and one is positive. Choose the right one and it can change your life.”
“Life won't dance, you're the performer.”
“Don't forget. In a years time you could be dead. Don't postpone a life for tomorrow that you can start today.”
“You play the hand you're dealt. I think the game's worthwhile.”
“If you look good and dress well, you don't need a purpose in life.”
“War is blind and peace unspoken.
Love is blind and a kiss unspoken.
Bless the blind, and Love the broken.”
“It is by acts and not by ideas that people live.”
“When you can see without your eyes, you will then see past the disguise.”
“I'm not upset that you lied to me, I'm upset that from now on I can't believe you”
“From the point of view of light, light itself does not exist.”
“Life is full of blips and tweaks. Blips are what happens in our lives. Tweaks are the changes we make to improve our lives.”
“Choose your FRIENDS wisely...because they can enhance YOUR LIFE by what they BE, DO, and HAVE.”
“My private measure of success is daily. If this were to be the last day of my life would I be content with it? To live in a harmonious balance of commitments and pleasures is what I strive for.”
“July 13, 1954 was the most tragic day of my life. I had lost my beloved Frida forever. To late now I realized that the most wonderful part of my life had been my love for Frida.”
“In life, there are those who are reaching upward, and those who are reaching outward.”
“I like to live my life like a leaf floating down a stream. If meet a rock in the way, I float around it. No matter what, I just keep moving.”
“All my life, I always wanted to be somebody. Now I see that I should have been more specific.”
“There is no way to penetrate the surface of life but by attacking it earnestly at a particular point.”
““A 'FRIEND' IS NOT A 'FRIEND' UNTIL THEY KNOW WHERE YOU HURT• UNTIL THEY KNOW HOW TO STOMP YOUR FACE INTO THE DIRT• BUT IF THIS 'FRIEND' KNOWS THIS, AND DOESN'T USE IT• THAN HE IS A '†RU∑ FRIEND' WITHOUT ANY CONFUSION””
“I am an amateur and I intend to stay that way for the rest of my life.”
“I've continued to recognize the power individuals have to change virtually anything and everything in their lives in an instant. I've learned that the resources we need to turn our dreams into reality are within us, merely waiting for the day when we decide to wake up and claim our birthright.”
“Any change, even a change for the better, is always accompanied by drawbacks and discomforts.”
“There's no half-singing in the shower, you're either a rock star or an opera diva.”
“[And lately, Thomas has been re-reading a book he's found particularly meaningful:] The Purpose Driven Life ... If you only talk about the past, there is no future.”
“I take it to be a principle rule of life, not to be too much addicted to any one thing”
“The need to exert power, when thwarted in the open fields of life, is the more likely to assert itself in trifles.”
“Eternity is best conceived if thought of as a joining of human and divine consciousness. Eternity and time should be thought of without any connections. Therefore, it is understood that eternity, not as immeasurable time, is a mode of being of the higher divine consciousness.”
“I want to look at life - at the commonplaces of existence - as if we had just turned a corner and run into it for the first time”
“Lust is Love without the vital ingredient: Passion.”
“Some of the best times in my life happened under the influence of drugs... I'd still be doing it if I could make good judgement calls. I'd still be doing it if I didn't blow up to the size of an aircraft hangar, because it was a great time.”
“You cannot travel the path until you have become the path itself”
“Smile because you don’t want others to cry.”
“A good idea, properly understood, always has a practical application.”
“Live your life for the sake of life itself. As well as you do good for goodness sakes. You just done it without mention.”
“Man is a mixture of good and evil, and he can never be perfected in this life. The notion of his natural goodness is a delusive theory which will blow up any social order that is predicated upon it.”
“One of my friends went on a murder weekend... now he is doing life for it.”
“I take judge-made law as one of the existing realities of life.”
“Some people come into our lives and quickly go.
Others stay for awhile and leave footprints on our hearts,
And we are never ever the same.”
“The four most over-rated things in life are champagne, lobster, anal sex and picnics.”
“My parents always encouraged me and I had a good home life. We were always taught to respect things and other people. It's so different today, because children are just not taught the right way.”
“Go confidently in the direction of your dreams. Live the life you have imagined.”
“It is no measure of health to be well adjusted to a profoundly sick society.”
“Live as long as you may, the first twenty years are the longest half of your life.”
“There is perhaps nothing so bad and so dangerous in life as fear.”
“When everything seems to be going against you, remember that the airplane takes off against the wind, not with it.”
“Failure is simply the opportunity to begin again, this time more intelligently.”
“Life is like a coin, you may spend it any way you wish, but you can only spend it once.”
“Each of us has the right and the responsibility to asses the road which lie ahead and those over which we have traveled, and if the feature road looms ominous or unpromising, and the road back uninviting-inviting, then we need to gather our resolve and carrying only the necessary baggage, step off that road into another direction. If the new choice is also unpalatable, without embarrassment, we must be ready to change that one as well.”
“Socialism is . . . not only a way of life, but a certain scientific approach to social and economic problems.”
“Most people fail in life because they major in minor things.”
“Success in life is being, doing, and having what you want in your own way.”
“In the attitude of silence the soul finds the path in an clearer light, and what is elusive and deceptive resolves itself into crystal clearness. Our life is a long and arduous quest after Truth.”
“Why does Sea World have a seafood restaurant?? I'm halfway through my fish burger and I realize, Oh my God....I could be eating a slow learner.”
“There is only one success - to be able to spend your life in your own way, and not to give others absurd maddening claims upon it”
“From now until the end of time no one else will ever see life with my eyes, and I mean to make the best of my chance.”
“You can't save your ass and your face at the same time”
“You do it once, you can do it again.”
“Maintaining a complicated life is a great way to avoid changing it.”
“Only my dreams are real”
“Most people will sacrifice their life and future on others ...who don't deserve it or appreciate it.”
“What I find sometimes that is tricky is if actors are using too much of their own life in a picture, in a scene, they get locked into a particular way to play the scene, and it lacks an immediacy.”
“I have dared and done, for my resting-place is found, The C major of this life: so, now I will try to sleep”
“For life, with all its yields of joy and woe, And hope and fear, - believe the aged friend - Is just a chance o' the prize of learning love”
“if in doubt f*** it”
“The face of a child will give us hope to live.”
“Progress is The law of life, man is not man as yet”
“Being alive is the best thing that can happen, because all there is to happen, is happening in life!”
“We are Warriors, Courage is our Sword, Life is our Battle, and difficulties is our enemies.To win this battle one must believe in himself.”
“Just like a vacuum sucks up all the dirt on your floor, your negative associations suck the life out of your dream.”
“His last days, a noble confrontation with death, made his life as much a work of art as his plays.”
“Life is good when we think it's good. Life is bad when we don't think.”
“Allow your rainy season to feed the seed in your heart so that you can mature to the next level in life.”
“Aim at heaven and you will get earth thrown in. Aim at earth and you get neither.”
“Learning to dislike children at an early age saves a lot of expense and aggravation later in life.”
“All these places have their moments - with lovers and friends - I still can recall some are dead and some are living - in my life I've loved them all.”
“If you hang around garbage you'll start stinking like it.”
“A great way to find J.O.Y.....Jesus, Others, Yourself : ) Remember what He did for you and all is well. Remember Jesus said, "in this world you will have troubles, but rejoice, because I have overcome the world"!!!”
“But did thee feel the earth move?”
“Every soul shall taste of death, and you shall only be paid fully your reward on the resurrection day; then whoever is removed far away from the fire and is made to enter the garden he indeed has attained the object; and the life of this world is nothing but a provision of vanities.”
“The more man meditates upon good thoughts, the better will be his world and the world at large.”
“Be polite to all, but intimate with few.”
“Our goal is to make a difference over there and help people that need to be helped. If one life is saved then we've done our job.”
“Play with life, laugh with life, dance lightly with life, and smile at the riddles of life, knowing that life’s only true lessons are writ small in the margin.”
“Remember, no human condition is ever permanent. Then you will not be overjoyed in good fortune nor too scornful in misfortune.”
“I have a 'Play the melody' philosophy. It means don't over-arrange, don't make life difficult. Just play the melody -- and do it the simplest way possible.”
“When you fall into a pit, you either die or get out”
“The first half of life is spent mainly in finding out who we are through seeing ourselves in our interaction with others.”
“I wept when I was born and every day explains why”
“What if a demon were to creep after you one night, in your loneliest loneliness, and say, 'This life which you live must be lived by you once again and innumerable times more; and every pain and joy and thought and sigh must come again to you, all in the same sequence. The eternal hourglass will again and again be turned and you with it, dust of the dust!' Would you throw yourself down and gnash your teeth and curse that demon? Or would you answer, 'Never have I heard anything more divine'?”
“Have you noticed that life, real honest to goodness life, with murders and catastrophes and fabulous inheritances, happens almost exclusively in newspapers?”
“Meditate.
Live purely. Be quiet.
Do your work with mastery.
Like the moon, come out 
from behind the clouds!
Shine”
“There are only three events in a man's life; birth, life, and death; he is not conscious of being born, he dies in pain, and he forgets to live”
“Eschew wicked company and associate with saintly persons. Acquire virtue day and night, and always meditate on that which is eternal forgetting that which is temporary.”
“The object of art is to give life a shape”
“People like to go where people go, ... It's all about life. A lot of life is what you couldn't have, you want the most.”
“If our life is unhappy it is painful to bear; if it is happy it is horrible to lose, So the one is pretty equal to the other.”
“Three keys to more abundant living: caring about others, daring for others, sharing with others.”
“The flower is the poetry of reproduction. It is an example of the eternal seductiveness of life.”
“Rules are for the obedience of fools and the guidance of wise men.”
“Dreams pass into the reality of action. From the actions stems the dream again; and this interdependence produces the highest form of living.”
“The U.S. used to be seen as the land where you could find freedom, and create a new life for yourself, whatever your background.”
“Always fall in with what you're asked to accept. Take what is given, and make it over your way. My aim in life has always been to hold my own with whatever's going. Not against: with.”
“Life is an opportunity, benefit from it. Life is a beauty, admire it. Life is a dream,
realize it. Life is a challenge, meet it. Life is a duty, complete it. Life is a game,
play it. Life is a promise, fulfill it. Life is sorrow, overcome it. Life is a song, sing
it. Life is a struggle, accept it. Life is a tragedy, confront it. Life is an adventure,
dare it. Life is luck, make it. Life is life, fight for it!”
“I don't want to ever step on anybody's life,”
“We are what we give unconditionally of ourselves.”
“Gray hairs seem to my fancy like the soft light of the moon, silvering over the evening of life.”
“I regret that I was never an athlete. I regret there isn't time in life. I regret that so many of my friends have died. I regret that I was not brave at certain times in my life. I regret that I'm not beautiful. I regret that my conversation is largely with myself. I'm not part of the conversation of the world.”
“I like shape very much. A novel has to have shape, and life doesn't have any.”
“A man is usually more careful of his money than he is of his principles.”
“It's your unlimited power to care and to love that can make the biggest difference in the quality of your life.”
“Sacrificing your whole life for the sake of the 'outer world goals' is not the way to live.The one and only achievement that a man could do is working towards "ENLIGHTENMENT".”
“Live with passion!”
“Maybe you are here on earth to learn that life is what you make of it, and it's to be enjoyed.”
“The real difficulty, the difficulty which has baffled the sages of all times, is rather this: how can we make our teaching so potent in the motional life of man, that its influence should withstand the pressure of the elemental psychic forces in the”
“We don't go through life with it all being smooth sailing. ... We all understand situations where you know it's swim or drown. It's a choice you have to make, and sometimes we surprise ourselves, when we actually make that choice and start swimming, with how well we can do it.”
“I think somehow you need to get to a certain point in your life where the notion of failure is absurd.”
“Live so that put downs and praise you receive are equally uplifting -- and are equally proof that you are meeting your life's purpose.”
“The body germinates, the mind sprouts, the soul nourishes and the spirit blooms.”
“. . .there is an element of Play that is almost ritualistic in Black folk life. It serves to mediate the tensions, stress, and pain of constant exploitation and oppression.”
“Adventure is the essence of life.”
“Married life teaches one invaluable lesson: to think of things far enough ahead not to say them.”
“What do you prefer: brutal honesty or humane lies?”
“The enemy gets its strength from your fear. Rebuke it out of your life by saying your affirmations daily.”
“There is need of variety in sex, but not in love”
“Life was a funny thing that occurred on the way to the grave”
“Sex is an emotion in motion”
“The most incomprehensible thing about the world is that it is at all comprehensible.”
“Common sense is the collection of prejudices acquired by age eighteen.”
“I'm not some big party chick, so it's not like I have to keep up my big social life.”
“My own mystic bent leads me to believe that musical variations, collage, reiteration and process, or evolution, are beautiful. Life is worth living and beauty is worth making.”
“We shape our buildings; thereafter they shape us.”
“Life all comes down to a few moments. This is one of them.”
“How I wish that somewhere there existed an island for those who are wise and of good will”
“You seem to have no real purpose in life and won't realize at the age of twenty-two that for a man life means work, and hard work if you mean to succeed.”
“You were made by God and for God, and until you understand that, life will never make sense.”
“I love the word 'juxtapose,' ... I like balancing words together like cruel and gentle, sad and beautiful. Life is not all black and white -- it's shaded.”
“You can spend minutes, hours, days, weeks or even months over-analyzing a situation; trying to put the pieces together, justifying what could've would've happened...or you can just leave the pieces on the floor and move the fuck on.”
“Declare and command: “I expect a supernatural
miracle today, because I've done what I know
will make a difference in people's lives and
I am bettering myself in order to better society.””
“Let the man who does not wish to be idle, fall in love”
“Be grateful for setbacks. They are opportunities for even more improvements.”
“There is no certainty; there is only adventure.”
“Doing the best at this moment puts you in the best place for the next moment.”
“What's money? A man is a success if he gets up in the morning and goes to bed at night and in between does what he wants to do.”
“I never thought I'd be here my whole life.”
“So much of my life is spent just focused on driving race cars.”
“The Facebook is for the Internet, as Big-Brother it is for the TV.”
“The world and life have been mighty good to me. And I want to put something back.”
“The two basic items necessary to sustain life are sunshine and coconut milk.”
“I love life because what more is there.”
“I don't value this life that much. Every human being has his time to go.”
“During the years of my presidency I lived a tough and difficult life ... I tried to be honest and fair, helped the talented and those in need,”
“A story to me means a plot where there is some surprise. Because that is how life is-full of surprises.”
“[The choice between social life and the uphill struggle for grades can be a hard one.] Balancing school and social life was the hardest for me in my second year, ... You don't have the ready access to people that you had in the dorm; if you want the homework for last night, you now have to call someone rather than knock on their door.”
“Drive thy business, let not that drive thee.”
“Obviously, 9/11 was one of the most profound events in our life as a country. Foreigners weren't really aware of how much it touched ordinary people, so I thought I needed to portray that in a way that would make them understand.”
“How late I learned the essential things in life! In my childhood, nailed to the Gemara, I led the life of a sage, and it was only later, when I was older, that I began to climb trees”
“I grew up in a very nice house in Houston, went to private school all my life and I've never even been to the 'hood. Not that there's anything wrong with the 'hood”
“If you can keep your wits about you while all others are losing theirs, and blaming you. . . . The world will be yours and everything in it, what's more, you'll be a man, my son.”
“To be sure of hitting the target, shoot first, and call whatever you hit the target”
“Now, bring me that horizon.”
“Be useful. Do useful things. Have useful things.”
“In all things it is better to hope than to despair”
“A cynic might suggest as the motto of modern life this simple legend - "Just as good as the real”
“I haven't understood a bar of music in my life, but I've felt it”
“Life is always at some turning point.”
“In life, each of us must sometimes play the fool.”
“The facts of life are very stubborn things”
“There is no heresy or no philosophy which is so abhorrent to the church as a human being.”
“The true measure of a man is how he treats someone who can do him absolutely no good.”
“It is not the answer you look for that makes you strong. It's the ways that you take that define who you are and what you can do.”
“The world is not respectable; it is mortal, tormented, confused, deluded forever; but it is shot through with beauty, with love, with glints of courage and laughter; and in these, the spirit blooms.”
“To me, consensus seems to be the process of abandoning all beliefs, principles, values and policies. So it is something in which no one believes and to which no one objects.”
“Freedom is the recognition that no single person, no single authority or government has a monopoly on the truth, but that every individual life is infinitely precious, that every one of us put in this world has been put there for a reason and has something to offer.”
“In three words I can sum up everything I've learned about life. It goes on.”
“There are thoughts which are prayers. There are moments when, whatever the posture of the body, the soul is on its knees.”
“Our sex life has been ruined since the arrival of our first baby. We can't be so spontaneous because we don't want the nanny to hear us. We can't scream and yell like we used to.”
“I have set my life upon a cast, and I will stand the hazard of the die.”
“There's hope a great man's memory may outlive his life half a year”
“I am sure care's an enemy to life.”
“Life is partly what we make it, and partly what it is made by the friends we choose.”
“The time of life is short; to spend that shortness basely were too long”
“Be absolute for death; either death or life
Shall thereby be the sweeter.”
“This is a burden I shall bear for every day of the life that is left to me.”
“[Human rights advocates say that the use of juvenile life without parole, or LWOP, is by one measure rising.] Even with murder rates going down, ... the proportion of juvenile murder offenders entering prison with LWOP sentences is going up.”
“The longer we dwell on our misfortunes the greater is their power to harm us”
“First you should be happy and then can infect all people, you can create best value only in the case of happiness!”
“Life defies our phrases, it is infinitely continuous and subtle and shaded, whilst our verbal terms are discrete, rude and few.”
“Human beings are born into this little span of life of which the best thing is its friendship and intimacies, and soon their places will know them no more, and yet they leave their friendships and intimacies with no cultivation, to grow as they will”
“Money cannot buy peace of mind. It cannot heal ruptured relationships, or build meaning into a life that has none.”
“Life. It is meant for living, not complaining.”
“The best thing for being sad,” replied Merlyn, beginning to puff and blow, “is to learn something. That is the only thing that never fails. You may grow old and trembling in your anatomies, you may lie awake at night listening to the disorder of your veins, you may miss your only love, you may see the world about you devastated by evil lunatics, or know your honour trampled in the sewers of baser minds. There is only one thing for it then — to learn. Learn why the world wags and what wags it. That is the only thing which the mind can never exhaust, never alienate, never be tortured by, never fear or distrust, and never dream of regretting."”
“Life is not always not always what one wants it to be., but to make the best of it as it is the only way of being happy.”
“Life is one long struggle between conclusions based on abstract ways of conceiving cases, and opposite conclusions prompted by our instinctive perception of them.”
“I want to be a good person and live my life the right way, keeping in mind that there might be a little kid who's watching what I do.”
“The bear is what we all wrestle with. Everybody has their bear in life. It's about conquering that bear and letting him go.”
“You can't take life for granted.”
“light for every darkness, life in death, the promise of our Lord's return, and the assurance of everlasting glory.”
“People assume I'm out there having this great life, but money doesn't erase the pain, ... When you're young you barrel through life, making choices without thinking of repercussions. A few years down the line, you wake up in a certain place and wonder how the hell you got there.”
“You can look at a picture for a week an never think of it again. You can also look at a picture for a second and think of it all your life.”
“It was very important to be here. It's a continuation of life,”
“Everything that looks to the future elevates human nature. Never is life so low or so little as when occupied with the present.”
“The celebration of success overshadows the challenges that were encountered along the way.”
“The meaning of life is to exist, to exist is to have meaning, to have meaning is to obtain the truth, to obtain the truth is to live life.”
“Doing what is expected is boring. Go beyond mediocre and aim toward excellence!”
“I've literally, in my entire life I've had two guys come up to me and ask me out. Other than that I have had to go and try to like spend time with them, or sort of start the conversation, basically like spell it out in a Sharpie, like, you know?”
“Next to the might of God, the serene beauty of a holy life is the most powerful influence of good in all the world”
“One of the great things about being a director as a life choice is that it can never be mastered. Every story is its own kind of expedition, with its own set of challenges.”
“Doing what you love is the cornerstone of having abundance in your life.”
“Experience is the greatest teacher of all”
“If A is a success in life, then A equals x plus y plus z. Work is x; y is play; and z is keeping your mouth shut.”
“Richer is one hour of repentance and good works in this world than all of life of the world to come; and richer is one hour's calm of spirit in the world to come than all of life of this world”
“The main purpose of life is to live rightly, think rightly, act rightly. The soul must languish when we give all our thought to the body.”
“Loving kindness is greater than laws; and the charities of life are more than all ceremonies.”
“Resolved, never to do anything which I should be afraid to do, if it were my last of life.”
“In civilized life, where the happiness, and indeed almost the existence, of man depends so much upon the opinion of his fellow men, he is constantly acting a studied part.”
“Help people who need it, not people who want it.”
“He who is without a wife dwells without blessing, life, joy, help, good, and peace”
“Life is easy to chronicle, but bewildering to practice...”
“I had three chairs in my house: one for solitude, two for friendship, three for society”
“If it weren't for pickpockets, I'd have no sex life at all.”
“I'm not a prophet or a stone aged man, just a mortal with potential of a superman. I'm living on.”
“I don't want to live. I want to love first, and live incidentally.”
“Everything that happens in your life is beautiful”
“Every circumstance in my life is my fault and my responsability. To accept this as a fact is to take the guiding force of my life away from the influence of others and give that power back to myself.”
“Listen closely to the winds,
for they carry messages,
of those long ago”
“if it is whispered in the wind it is heard; if you listen to the wind you to shall hear”
“There is something about the literary life that repels me, all this desperate building of castles on cobwebs, the long-drawn acrimonious struggle to make something important which we all know will be gone forever in a few years, the miasma of failure which is to me almost as offensive as the cheap gaudiness of popular success.”
“I believe if life gives you lemons make lemonade…then find someone that life gave vodka to and have a party.”
“Your purpose in life is to use your gifts and talents to help other people. Your journey in life teaches you how to do that.”
“For, to appreciate a work of art we need bring with us nothing from life, no knowledge of its ideas and affairs, no familiarity with its emotions. Art transports us from the world of man's activity to a world of aesthetic exaltation. For a moment we are shut off from human interests; our anticipations and memories are arrested; we are lifted above the stream of life.”
“I postpone death by living, by suffering, by error, by risking, by giving, by losing.”
“The life of my persona has nothing to do with me,”
“Reach high, for stars lie hidden in your soul. Dream deep, for every dream precedes the goal.”
“All the principles of heaven and earth are living inside you. Life itself is truth, and this will never change. Everything in heaven and earth breathes. Breath is the thread that ties creation together.”
“In life, the first thing you must do is decide what you really want. Weigh the costs and the results. Are the results worthy of the costs? Then make up your mind completely and go after your goal with all your might.”
“Life doesn't offer you promises whatsoever so it's very easy to become, 'Whatever happened to...?' It's great to be wanted. I spent a few years not being wanted and this is better.”
“The mother is not dying exactly, but has reached a point in life where death is a familiar on the staircase.”
“It (Unemployment Insurance) provides prepaid vacations for a segment of our country which has made it a way of life”
“It (Unemployment Insurance) provides prepaid vacations for a segment of our country which has made it a way of life”
“Everything that's really worthwhile in life comes to us.”
“Perfection is an illusion of the mind.”
“To be successful in life what you need is education, not literacy and degrees.”
“Everyone has been made for some particular work, and the desire for that work has been put in every heart.”
“Excellence is my natural element.”
“Don't live in the shadows of those whose interferences badly influences and deceives us
Live in the light of your own selfs truth and remain true to your own beliefs.”
“I SMILE BECAUSE I REFUSE 2 FROWN!”
“I like life. It's something to do.”
“My recipe for life is not being afraid of myself, afraid of what I think or of my opinions.”
“All my life, ... I have been preoccupied with the great tragedy of losing family in wars. The pain of losing a parent or a child in (an act of) violence that is purposefully and directly generated by political forces is in a certain way harder to bear than if someone dies in, say, an accident. The death feels more preventable.”
“The way I look at life - we're all on the Hindenberg, so there's no use in arguing over the window seat.”
“Maturity is immaturity, grown up.”
“Either you let your life slip away by not doing the things you want to do, or you get up and do them.”
“Live the life you love. Love the life you live.”
“Your life will be no better than the plans you make and the action you take. You are the architect and builder of your own life, fortune, destiny.”
“A man should hear a little music, read a little poetry, and see a fine picture every day of his life, in order that worldly cares may not obliterate the sense of the beautiful which God has implanted in the human soul.”
“My play was a complete success. The audience was a failure.”
“The boomers' biggest impact will be on eliminating the term 'retirement' and inventing a new stage of life, ... the new career arc.”
“Forty is the old age of youth; fifty is the youth of old age.”
“Change is opportunity, do not degrade yourself simply because of your circumstances.”
“In this life we cannot do great things. We can only do small things with great love.”
“When you take charge of your life, there is no longer need to ask permission of other people or society at large. When you ask permission, you give someone veto power over your life.”
“Artistically, they shut the door on me. I am now making a new life.”
“My friends and I are debating about optimism, whether the glass is half empty or half full.....Well it really doesnt make a difference to me since all my glasses are paper cups.”
“A true leader, a man of his word and an optimist, he traveled the journey of his life with dignity and faced courageously the cruel disease that darkened his final years. He has earned a place in history and in people's hearts.”
“There is no truer friend than your own conscience.”
““All the so-called "secrets of success" will not work unless you do.””
“Don't let them beat down your spirit and the spirit of your ideas go with reality and what seems natural to you ...transpire within this Universe and together we shall have a goal.”
““All the so-called "secrets of success" will not work unless you do.””
“Whatever you do, or dream you can, begin it. Boldness has genius and power and magic in it.”
“Life is full of doors that don't open when you knock, equally spaced amid those that open when you don't want them to”
“A smile from the heart is a therapy that turns a bad moment to a gracious one.”
“Living the life I choose is, to me, as important as breathing. Inhale, and gain a sense of adventure. Exhale, and sever any cords that hold you back - realize they were only strings to be broken.”
“A smile from the heart is a therapy that turns a bad moment to a gracious one.”
“Everybody is fighting a hard battle that you know nothing about, never give up with yours.”
“It is he who understands why we have morning and night, that masters the concept of rising and falling”
“Everybody is fighting a hard battle that you know nothing about, never give up with yours.”
“Smiling has special powers that you can't believe it is capable of doing, like calming fears, insecurities, hurt and anxiety just like beauty around you.”
“True happiness is being able to see the beauty of life through your own eyes rather than having to be convinced of it by another.”
“If they can't handle the truth I will let them panhandle for the lies.”
“Sometimes the easiest way to get through today, is to simply have something to look forward to tomorrow.”
“If You See Via My Eyes!!
You'll See That The Life Is A Kaleidoscope!!
The People With Just A Little Shake Often Tend To Change Their Colors!
But With A Greater Jerk!!,
We All Get Designed Into One Single Beautiful Pattern! - Well!!..,
That's Unity For Me!!:)”
“Experience has taught me this, that we undo ourselves by impatience. Misfortunes have their life and their limits, their sickness and their health.”
“If you want milk, don’t sit on a stool in the middle of a field in the hope that the cow will come to you.”
“One is not simply given a god given gift; it is through the sweat, determination and mindset of that individual that sets him a part from you and I.”
“Smiling has special powers that you can't believe it is capable of doing, like calming fears, insecurities, hurt and anxiety just like beauty around you.”
“Love is blind.”
““Don't work like this "24x7", 'just live like this'.””
“Life is about a game that makes you a loser,
Hope is about restarting it,
Living is about fighting it back!”
“Do you ever get that feeling where you don't want to talk to anyone anymore? You just want to be left alone for a while, not to be lonely but to figure out whats going on in your life.”
“I have the simplest tastes. I am always satisfied with the best.”
“Wake at dawn with a winged heart and give thanks for another day of loving.”
“Awareness is a key ingredient in success. If you have it, teach it, if you lack it, seek it.”
“Sorry I had to let you go but I couldn’t hold on anymore. It kills me to let you go but its even worse to see that you don’t care at all about me. You mean everything to me but I guess to you, I'm just another friend. The more I hold on, the more I'm going to get hurt. Someday I'm going to look back and regret and I’m gonna wish I tried harder but the sad truth is, that in the end the one that gets hurt isn’t you, its me.”
“I don’t care if people hate my guts; I assume most of them do. The important question is whether they are in a position to do anything about it.”
“For in itself a thought, a slumbering thought, is capable of years, and curdles a long life into one hour.”
“'Tis very certain the desire of life prolongs it.”
“Without depression and anxiety, I would not be who I am; a person who can see beauty and humour in the smallest and least likely of things; appreciating others kindness tenfold. When the black clouds of despair descend and life seems pointless I try to remember that one day in the future, perhaps this very day, a gentle breeze will blow the clouds away and allow the sunshine in. When that happens the world is a new and magical place and I wish to live forever.”
“There is no such thing as a life of passion any more than a continuous earthquake, or an eternal fever. Besides, who would ever shave themselves in such a state?”
“Like the measles, love is most dangerous when it comes late in life.”
“Smile when you can~ Laugh Loud and often... Love well. Remember your spirit and take care of yourself...”
“The greater your capacity to love, the greater your capacity to feel the pain.”
“The glory of friendship is not the outstretched hand, nor the kindly smile, nor the joy of companionship; it's the spiritual inspiration that comes to one when he discovers that someone else believes in him and is willing to trust him with his friend.”
“It takes courage to push yourself to places that you have never been before... to test your limits... to break through barriers. And the day came when the risk it took to remain tight inside the bud was more painful than the risk it took to blossom.”
“The only person you are destined to become is the person you decide to be.”
“through crucifixion only the resurrection is possible”
“Life can be very difficult at times. However, death is always a no brain er.”
“I take pride only in what is worth taking pride in, I work to my potential because I have one, and I do what I do because I can.”
“Satisfaction consists in freedom from pain, which is the positive element of life.”
“Stay the course, light a star,
Change the world where'er you are.”
“With you I run across the beach under a wondrous sun.
With you my soul connects with yours makin' two into one.”
“IF THE ROAD WE ARE ABOUT TO EMBARKED ON IS ROUGH AND BUMPY,TRY NOT TO TAKE ANYTHING THAT IS FRAGILE ALONG”
“Intimate relationships last a long time. Soulmate relationships last forever.”
“Hope is the beginning of all misery and once you’re completely miserable, you can begin the cycle of having hope once more.”
“Everyone has the power to make someone else happy, some do it by entering the room while others do it simply by leaving”
“You’ll never be successful if you’re afraid of the task at hand. The true meaning of success is the gratification you receive when you’ve accomplished something that you thought you couldn’t and bear the fruits from it. If you are able to share the fruits with others then you’ve really accomplished something special.”
“If darkness surrounds you, look for the light. If you can't see it, raise your head up. You may be surrounded by darkness but it does not cover you on top. Let the light shine down on you and let it lead the way out of darkness.”
“If not us, who? If not now, when?”
“I know we only live once. But that doesn't mean live fast and die young. There is more youth six feet under! Than the elderly in nursing homes.”
“Life is like an analogy.”
“The wisest words are sometimes those not spoken.”
“The secret of getting ahead is getting started. The secret of getting started is breaking your complex overwhelming tasks into small manageable tasks, and then starting on the first one.”
“The one who achieves balance in life rarely achieves anything greater.”
“Never before has a civilization reached such a degree of a contempt for life; never before has a generation, drowned in mortification, felt such a rage to live.”
“Without knowing why I am and why I am here, life is impossible.”
“Ivan Ilyich's life was most simple, and most ordinary, and therefore most terrible.”
“‎Look at your 5 closest friends. Those five friends are who you are. If you don't like who you are, then you know what you have to do...”
“The high prize of life, the crowning fortune of man, is to be born with a bias to some pursuit which finds him in employment and happiness.”
“The only prudence in life is concentration.”
“Stop acting as if life is a rehearsal. Live this day as if it were your last. The past is over and gone. The future is not guaranteed.”
“Money is the grease that lubricates the engine of life. Too much won't take you further, but with too little you’ll feel the heat.”
“Sooner or later that which is now life shall be poetry, and every fair and manly trait shall add a richer strain to the song.''”
“It's quiet simple, you can either lead, follow or get out of the way.”
“Your dreams will come true if you take steps towards their manifestation everyday. Believe; it can happen to you.”
“Be careful if you think you have reached the top of the mountain. Because the climb down could be much more treacherous than the climb up.”
“Some people come into our lives & leave footprints on our hearts. Others come into our lives & make us wanna leave footprints on their face.”
“If Life had a rewind button , we would never move forward”
“You are the most important ingredient to your success.”
“It is always better to look at a matter positively before ruling negatively on it.”
“He is unworthy of life who gives no life to another”
“No matter how you look, while you smile. But it matters when you smile, while you look others.”
“In the end it is not the years in your life that count. It is the life in your years”
“When you have an open mind the great idea comes right in”
“Harmony of aim, not identity of conclusion, is the secret of sympathetic life”
“Life is an endless search for one's self.”
“If you don't allow for error, how do you expect to succeed?”
“To wake up in the morning and think that dreams will just happen, is wrong; you make dreams happen.”
“When you learn to love, you also need to learn how to let go.”
“Settling is giving up, don't ever settle”
“You are wholly complete and your success in life will be in direct proportion to your ability to accept this truth about you.”
“The most important things in life aren't things.”
“Breathe in the Universe. Exhale the Negativity. Inhale the Positivity. Release your Creativity ~ Nerissa irving”
“The genesis of evil is the elimination of free will.”
“When you say NO you miss so many things,
dare to say YES and experience moments in your life you will never forget.”
“Don't let what you cannot do interfere with what you can do.”
“People label people when they are too scared to get to know them.”
“There is something in every one of you that waits and listens for the sound of the genuine in yourself. It is the only true guide you will ever have. And if you cannot hear it, you will all of your life spend your days on the ends of strings that somebody else pulls.”
“Accountability is the measure of a leaders height.”
“Call it a clan, call it a network, call it a tribe, call it a family: Whatever you call it, whoever you are, you need one.”
“You might as well be nice to everyone, because in the end if something happens to someone your mean/rude to, you are going to feel like a complete asshole in the end.”
“No one has the right to tell me what to do with my Life, or my body. And anyone who thinks they do, had best be able to walk on water~”
“love without fear, love without know if it's wrong or right, do the best you have, this is the hardest game to learn, it looks easy, you know when your heart is so naive, you have to throw the dice…”
“I wanna be the closest thing to you, something like your bed.”
“A man who limits his interests, limits his life.”
“(Jealousy Cont.) And shows this through the emotional signs of anger, depression, and or aggression. This emotion is natural and can be disposed of by greeting new experiences and forgiving 'Yourself' and the 'Others' who may have caused this, thus freeing yourself from the psychological state you are currently submersed in.”
“In my book Trust and Respect is vital to any healthy friendship no matter male or female. Once broken it can never be truly put back together as it once was. Treat others the way you want to be treated.”
“Start shaping your own day. Start walking your own walk. This journey is yours, take charge of it. Stop giving other people your power to shape your life.”
“Tell someone in public "Thank You" is good for a time. Showing them you appreciate what they did for you in a personal card or letter ...is something they can keep and treasure for life.”
“I am not Superwoman. The reality of my daily life is that I'm juggling a lot of balls in the air... and sometimes some of the balls get dropped.”
“The moment you become content with being idle and not wanting more for yourself, is the moment you paralyze initiative.”
“Life is too short to stress yourself with people who don't even deserve to be an issue in your life”
“some beautiful memories from the past.. some moments that couldn't last.. why do you stop and wait, there is nobody there.. only you, yourself and your own shadow to cast.. tricks of the moon, don't get carried away.. every soul is destined to be alone, you're just on your way..”
“We all make mistakes, have struggles, and even regret things in our past. But you are not your mistakes, you are not your struggles, and you are here NOW with the power to shape your day and your future.”
“It takes as much energy to wish as it does to plan”
“Light is god and God is light; For without light we’d have no consistent perception of reality, and without reality, we don’t exist.”
“I would rather have a word of encouragement from a friend while i am here...than a whole truckload while i am gone.”
“The day the manipulation of a child’s mind ceases, is the first day of a world without the inherited disdain of those, whom in the past, would have been chastised because of their beliefs, color, and or origin and finally be judged for whom they really are, good or bad, and not what one was taught through sightless and ignorant foregone conclusions.”
“Do not compromise yourself and put your goodness in the same impermanent category as whatever circumstance happening. Be the best you in every circumstance.”
“My throat chokes up, tears fall from my eyes, and my heart cries love tonight. Our children are fighting, for their lives almighty, my GOD please make them alright.”
“I am nothing special, of this I am sure. I am a common man with common thoughts and I've led a common life. There are no monuments dedicated to me and my name will soon be forgotten, but I've loved another with all my heart and soul, and to me, this has always been enough...”
“I used to try so hard to fit in with everybody else. But then, I realized that everyone else didn't fit in with me.”
“There are things which couldn't be expressed by the words,
when you've mastered certain lesson for more than 30 years.”
“Renew, release, let go. Yesterday’s gone. There’s nothing you can do to bring it back. You can’t “should’ve” done something. You can only DO something. Renew yourself. Release that attachment. Today is a new day!”
“Life is like a puzzle that is ever, always, formulating itself.”
“You renounce your success when you blame others for your failures.”
““Three things tell a man: his eyes, his friends and his favorite quotes.””
“I hate when I'm a sexual butterfly and the man I'm with is a damn moth”
“In the immutability of their surroundings the foreign shores, the foreign faces, the changing immensity of life, glide past, veiled not by a sense of mystery but by a slightly disdainful ignorance; for there is nothing mysterious to a seaman unless it be the sea itself, which is the mistress of his existence and as inscrutable as Destiny.”
“Each blade of grass has its spot on earth whence it draws its life, its strength; and so is man rooted to the land from which he draws his faith together with his life.”
“You may be able to convince me of your true lies, but you will never believe that your lies are truth.”
“The eyebrows form but a small part of the face, and yet they can darken the whole of life by the scorn they express”
“stop wearing your wishbone where your backbone ought to be...”
“An act of love that fails is just as much a part of the divine life as an act of love that succeeds, for love is measured by its own fullness, not by its reception.”
“A loving relationship is one in which the loved one is free to be himself -- to laugh with me, but never at me; to cry with me, but never because of me; to love life, to love himself, to love being loved. Such a relationship is based upon freedom and can never grow in a jealous heart.”
“The happiest time in a man's life is when he is in the red hot pursuit of a dollar with a reasonable prospect of overtaking it.”
“As strange as it may seem, human bodies are transportation devices. You came out of your mother's body when you were born, and you will come out of your own body when you die. A human body brought you into this world and a human body will release you from it”
“Don't worry about life, you're not going to survive it anyway.””
“Change what you can change, let go of the rest.”
“Life's a photograph. Take it!”
“The law of the wise is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death (Proverbs 13:14).”
“Whatever course you decide upon, there is always someone to tell you that you are wrong. There are always difficulties arising which tempt you to believe that your critics are right. To map out a course of action and follow it to an end requires courage.”
“One of the grotesqueries of present-day American life is the amount of reasoning that goes into displaying the wisdom secreted in bad movies while proving that modern art is meaningless. They have put into practice the notion that a bad art work cleverly interpreted according to some obscure Method is more rewarding than a masterpiece wrapped in silence.”
“That was probably the hardest time in my life so far. Sometimes, you never know why things happen.”
“Doing the good deeds is like the grass in the garden.
You don't see it growth, but, it does by days.
Doing the wicked deeds is like the hone. You don't see it damage, but, it does by days.”
“If you've had a bad day, look at it as a good day and you'll never have a bad day again.”
“Time is more valuable than money. You can get more money, but you cannot get more time.”
“I don't want to be a passenger in my own life”
“People deal too much with the negative, with what is wrong...Why not try and see positive things, to just touch those things and make them bloom?”
“Simplicity is the ultimate sophistication.”
“‎~ Carry your anger around in one hand, and a poisonous spider in the other, both are dangerous, the difference? Your anger is more likely to strike you first. ~”
“Human beings, like plants, grow in the soil of acceptance, not in the atmosphere of rejection”
“Talk low, talk slow and don't say too much.”
“It was a natural thing. I've taken those (penalty kicks) all my life so it was pretty simple.”
“Wear the masks yet know underneath the mask is you and only you..That is life...”
“In reality, there is no "SUCCESS" or "FAILURE" ...just the RESULT of a Decision and Action. Choose another Decision and Action and you'll have corresponding Result.”
“If you have to think about whether you love someone or not then the answer is no. When you love someone you just know.”
“You are who you are. people can either take it, or leave it. Never should you help people in any way make the decision of being a part of your life.”
“I would be true, for there are those who trust me; I would be pure, for there are those who care; I would be strong, for there is much to suffer; I would be brave, for there is much to dare.”
“If creating life is art, then living and dying must be poetry.”
“Imagine all the people living life in peace.”
“A dame that knows the ropes isn't likely to get tied up.”
“I would rather die a meaningful death than to live a meaningless life.”
“Speak softly and carry a big stick, and you will go far.”
“There is having flowers in Spring, breezes in Summer, moon in Autumn, snows in Winter. If there is nothing worrying over you, it will be the best seasons at all times.”
“To laugh often and much; to win the respect of intelligent people and the affection of children...to leave the world a better place...to know even one life has breathed easier because you have lived. This is to have succeeded.”
“O for a life of sensations rather than of thoughts!”
“Promise me you'll never forget me because if I thought you would I'd never leave.”
“Even when someone you love has passed, you have to keep living no matter what. You only get one life, don't waste it!”
“If you want to change the world, why don't you start with yourself”
“A human must never say negative things with their tongue, for words can never be taken back.”
“Sometimes unexpected things are a disappointment for sure.Yet when it happens it makes one see how resilient we are.”
“God, who foresaw your tribulation, has specially armed you to go through it, not without pain but without stain”
“If you're climbing the ladder of life, you go rung by rung, one step at a time. Don't look too far up, set your goals high but take one step at a time. Sometimes you don't think you're progressing until you step back and see how high you've really gone.”
“I am good, but not an angel. I do sin, but I am not the devil. I am pretty, but not beautiful. I have friends, but I am not the peacemaker. I am just a small girl in a big world trying to find someone to love.”
“Remember always that you not only have the right to be an individual, you have an obligation to be one.”
“The reason why fear is so powerful is because you believe it to be stronger than you.”
“Don't take your blessings that God has blessed you with for granted.”
“You can't just wish change; you have to live the change in order for it to become a reality.”
“A lack of clarity could put the brakes on any journey to success.”
“Freedom is more than just a word and patriotic concept. It is the purest intent of God.”
“Life is a geometric progression where 'a' is you and 'r' is shit”
“When you can accept the mistakes you've made, the person you are today and the faults you have, than and only than you can live your life and be happy.”
“When you die, it is not what you Have that counts ... it is what you Gave”
“One of the reasons why so few of us ever act, instead of react, is because we are continually stifling our deepest impulses.”
“The deeper that sorrow carves into your being the more joy you can contain. Is not the cup that holds your wine the very cup that was burned in the potter's oven?”
“Your pain is the breaking of the shell that encloses your understanding. It is the bitter potion by which the physician within you heals your sick self, so therefore, trust the physician and drink his remedy in silence and tranquility.”
“My life has been destroyed because I believed the truth would prevail, ... I wish I had the strength to continue to fight this evil with honor. The hypocrites who refused to perform their duty will eventually have to answer to their own conscience.”
“Am i on some distant battle field you say? No, I am but in my own mind and dreams replaying the battle field of life never letting go of the blood stained flag.”
“What is important is not what someone is but what he is waiting for. Not the events of life but its possibilities.”
“Whatever satisfies the soul is truth.”
“Men have forgotten this truth," said the fox. "But you must not forget it. You become responsible, forever, for what you have tamed.”
“What is visible is not always a good measure - It is not about how tall the tree is, but rather how deep its root.”
“Everyone sees the unseen in proportion to the clarity of his heart, and that depends upon how much he has polished it. Whoever has polished it more sees more - more unseen forms become manifest to him.”
“Life is like the blink of an eye. What is that worth? Nothing. But the eye that blinks - that is something. I guess I blinked, on accident. Sometimes, though, I have found accidents to be the most fortuitous events in my life. You meet the one person who reminds you what you are, what you do, how to be happy.”
“One who really Loves to be Happy, can never be unhappy.”
“Taking each day as it comes simply means that you know what you would like to achieve the following day and not hoping for something to happen.”
“My greatest mentors were my mistakes.”
“You are where you are right now because of the actions you've taken, or maybe, the inaction you've taken.”
“The universe is so well balanced that the mere fact that you have a problem also serves as a sign that there is a solution.”
“If I am what I have and if I lose what I have who then am I?”
“There are many paths to enlightenment. Be sure to take one with a heart.”
“We will get true and lasting change as soon as we make helping people a way of life instead of a business.”
“If you want something you have to go get it yourself or create it. That's all I'm doing this year. Creating my own destiny. Making my own success. Impossible is not in my vocabulary. If I want my own talk show, I will create it. If I want to produce a movie, I will. I WILL Succeed. Failure and Success are words we created. So why not create your destiny, your own words, your own empire.”
“The longest journey through life, is down the path that leads us Home.”
“In a strong relationship, you should love your companion more than you need them.”
“Stop believing and start knowing. Trust in you. Trust in truth.”
“The innate power you possess to achieve your dreams is immeasurable.”
“You were not meant for a mundane or mediocre life!”
“If you see something different for yourself in the future, you have to do something different for yourself in the present.”
“There's a difference between having the faith to believe and having the faith to receive.”
“Sometimes the love you'll feel after you've been hurt is stronger than ever.”
“Don't keep all your feelings sheltered - express them. Don't EVER let life shut you up!”
“Although time seems to fly by, it never travels faster than one day at a time. Each day is a new opportunity to live your life to the fullest.”
“If you hang out with chickens, you're going to cluck and if you hang out with eagles, you're going to fly.”
“The value of a moment is immeasurable. The power of just ONE moment can propel you to success and happiness or chain you to failure and misery.”
“When the puddle gets too deep you just walk around it.”
“Change is in the air. This change reminds us that we are made and beautifully sculpted by the same power that orchestrates the change of season. Let this be the season you embrace and align yourself with this change.”
“People who lack the clarity, courage, or determination to follow their own dreams will often find ways to discourage yours.”
“Accept yourself, your strengths, your weaknesses, your truths, and know what tools you have to fulfill your purpose.”
“"Wandering aimlessly through life, in sort of a bliss is like using a compass without a directional needle" ~Tom Baker”
“I don't think that making ourselves invulnerable to feeling any onslaught to our feelings will help us in life, ultimately. I think we only learn and grow by allowing ourselves to be really challenged by those feelings that do overwhelm us occasionally.”
“Failures are opportunities to make our path clearer and more direct. Don't see a failure as a hinderence but rather as stepping stones to help you create a better and clearer picture of your goal. Furthermore, when one doesn't give up failures catapult one to the end result.”
“Your ear can only hear what the mouth may say, it can not see the lie in the eye.”
“our exceptance of wrong is progressing our extinction”
“Before you speak, listen.
Before you write, think.
Before you spend, earn.
Before you invest, investigate.
Before you criticize, wait.
Before you pray, forgive.
Before you quit, try.
Before you retire, save.
Before you die, give.”
“The little things we do in life matter. What we see as unimportant could have an impact on another person's life. You could smile to someone and never think about it. But that someone could see in your smile a reason to feel better.”
“Do not look where you fell but where you slipped”
“Boredom is underrated.”
“It is too easy to make commentary on my life from your luxury box.”
“I prefer to be a dreamer among the humblest, with visions to be realized, than lord among those without dreams and desires.”
“Each of us has a piece of the puzzle,”
“When in doubt live your authentic self its the best challenge you will ever embrace.”
“The most spiritual human beings, assuming they are the most courageous, also experience by far the most painful tragedies: but it is precisely for this reason that they honor life, because it brings against them its most formidable weapons.”
“And in the end, it's not the years in your life that count. It's the life in your years.”
“Here is the secret of inspiration: Tell yourself that thousands and tens of thousands of people, not very intelligent and certainly no more intelligent than the rest of us, have mastered problems as difficult as those that now baffle you”
“It is those of us who have been broken that become experts at mending.”
“The exchange program is the thing that reconciles me to all the difficulties of political life.”
“No distance of place or lapse of time can lessen the friendship of those who are thoroughly persuaded of each other's worth.”
“Any fool can criticize, condemn, and complain but it takes character and self control to be understanding and forgiving.”
“Be in love, for love, to love.”
“I learned everything that I know about comedy and about show business and a lot about life from Carl [Reiner].”
“Life is filled with a lot of stuff, you know. There is never a dull moment.”
“Don't spend your precious time asking "Why isn't the world a better place?" It will only be time wasted. The question to ask is "How can I make it better?" To that there is an answer.”
“Joy is a net of love by which you can catch souls. A joyful heart is the inevitable result of a heart burning with love”
“If you say that you never lie in life, you honestly insult my intelligence.”
“Wake up every morning and realize how blessed you are to see the sunshinning and the raindrops dropping, to have family and friends that truly care about your well being, to know that some small act of kindness can change someone's perspective on the world for a day, or forever. No matter what God sends your way you will embrace it and learn from it. Know that you were blessed with this life, unique from all others and make it your own.”
“At the end of your life you're not gonna be thinking about what you've accomplished or what you have lost.. You're gonna be thinking about everything that made you feel alive.”
“The Complexity of the Human Life becomes double each year”
“One of life's best coping mechanisms is to know the difference between an inconvenience and a problem. If you break your neck, if you have nothing to eat, if your house is on fire, then you've got a problem. Everything else is an inconvenience. Life is inconvenient. Life is lumpy. A lump in the oatmeal, a lump in the throat and a lump in the breast are not the same kind of lump. One needs to learn the difference.”
“If you choose to live by the "Die with my boots on" philosophy, then may I suggest it's best you get yourself a pair of nice-looking boots.”
“Life is uncertain and death is unknown, so forget your past and stick with the present cause you wont understand life until you know death”
“AdJusT youRSElf beCominG tHe pErson yOu moStlY pRoud tO be Who You thInK ReAlly hAs tHe bEst PlAce iN yOu bY beIng inDiffereNt amonG aLL thE reGreTs aNd FailUreS WhiCh WilL be The fRaGrance Of yOur FutuRe BleSSings...”
“The Complexity of the Human Life becomes double each year”
“The only thing impossible is the impossibility of the impossible”
“To be nobody but yourself in a world which is doing its best, night and day, to make you everybody else means to fight the hardest battle which any human being can fight; and never stop fighting.”
“Life is not a series of gig lamps symmetrically arranged; life is a luminous halo, a semi-transparent envelope surrounding us from the beginning of consciousness to the end.”
“Life does not cease to be funny when people die any more than it ceases to be serious when people laugh.”
“Learn and grow all you can; serve and befriend all you can; enrich and inspire all you can.”
“When you're passionate about something, you want it to be all it can be. But in the endgame of life, I fundamentally believe the key to happiness is letting go of that idea of perfection.”
“your attitude determines your altitude...”
“As the pilot of your life, be careful not to take on too much baggage.”
“Those who can soar to the highest heights can also plunge to the deepest depths, and the natures which enjoy most keenly are those which also suffer most sharply”
“Part of water which is cooler always flows to below surface.
I understand that hotheaded men always want to be noticed.”
“If you're in bad mood, take a deep breath. If you're in good mood, give thanks to God.”
“Never cut a tree down in the wintertime. Never make a negative decision in the low time. Never make your most important decisions when you are in your worst moods. Wait. Be patient. The storm will pass. The spring will come.”
“"Life is about valuing our differences; one person's weakness might be another's strength." ~Tom Baker”
“Life is similar to a shooting star we just have separate paths at different speeds through the universe”
“So what if you did not do as good as you had hoped, life is too big to worry about one small thing in life.”
“We are what our thoughts have made us; so take care about what you think. Words are secondary. Thoughts live; they travel far.”
“If everything in my life is going smoothly, then obviously I know I'm doing something wrong. Life was not meant to be easy, it was meant to be messy with lessons to learn.”
“Be ambitious towards your own personal enhancement.”
“Observe the life by cause and consequence. Explore the life by wisdom. Treat the life by equality. Complete the life by love.”
“Remember that failure is an event, not a person”
“Wishing to be friends is quick work, but friendship is slow-ripening fruit.”
“One of the beautiful things about baseball is that every once in a while you come into a situation where you want to, and where you have to, reach down and prove something.”
“Seek that which within lies waiting to begin the fight of your life that is everyday.”
“Feeling of hatred unto your enemy, drains your energy as enemy wanted.”
“If you don't know where you are going, any road will get you there.”
“Opportunities are like sunrises -- if you wait too long, you miss them.”
“In any fighting without rules, there is always rule of thumb.
One of them is not to be fooled by the snapping and the look of enemy.”
“The greatest pain for men isn't physical but emotional. The greatest fear for men isn't death but regret. When love leaves them alone in the past is when a man falls to his knees.”
“How long should you try? Until.”
“Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world.”
“I find the great thing in this world is not so much where we stand, as in what direction we are moving: To reach the port of heaven, we must sail sometimes with the wind and sometimes against it, but we must sail, and not drift, nor lie at anchor”
“To reach a port we must sail, sometimes with the wind, and sometimes against it. But we must not drift or lie at anchor.”
“The worst thing one can do is not to try, to be aware of what one wants and not give in to it, to spend years in silent hurt wondering if something could have materialized - never knowing.”
“It is extremely important for you to believe in yourselves not only for what you are now but for what you have the power to become. Trust in the Lord as He leads you along. He has things for you to do that you won't know about now but that will unfold later. If you stay close to Him, You will have some great adventures. You will live in a time where instead of sometimes being fulfilled, many of them will actually be fulfilled. The Lord will unfold your future bit by bit.”
“Being frustrated is disagreeable, but the real disasters in life begin when you get what you want”
“Life has tested us with bad times; Life has gifted us with good times.”
“The things you want are always possible; it is just that the way to get them is not always apparent. The only real obstacle in your path to a fulfilling life is you, and that can be a considerable obstacle because you carry the baggage of insecurities and past experience.”
“When we feel, some kind of lyrics is sung within our heart. When we think, some kind of instrument is played within our mind. In harmony, both create a beautiful symphony of life.”
“When you dance, your purpose is not to get to a certain place on the floor. It's to enjoy each step along the way.”
“Fie upon this quiet life! I want work.”
“There are things that we don't want to happen but have to accept,
things we don't want to know but have to learn,
and people we can't live without but have to let go”
“Death makes no conquest of this conqueror: For now he lives in fame, though not in life.”
“Reason thus with life:
If I do lose thee, I do lose a thing
That none but fools would keep.”
“Don’t just be good enough today. Be Great everyday!”
“The most wasted day of all is that on which we have not laughed”
“Stay committed to your decisions, but stay flexible in your approach.”
“The best argument I know for an immortal life is the existence of a man who deserves one.”
“i am not born to defend, i hope you were born to realize”
“The meaning to life. Is to live.”
“When the world tells me i'm immature, I tell the world i'm just enjoying life, and the simple things it has to offer.”
“How could you take his life away (What made you think you had the right?)/ How could you be so full of hate (To take away somebody's life?)/ When I heard you let him die and leave the world, I wondered why/ I sat and home and on my own, I cried alone and scratched your name in the side of a bullet.”
“I am a 23 yr old, with the quest of a 5 year old, carelessness of 10 year old, dreams of a 15 year old, enthusiasm of a 20 year old made me make so many mistakes that gives experience of a 42 year old. so on an average i am still 18 year old :P”
“The secret of life is to appreciate the pleasure of being terribly deceived”
“No one person can possibly combine all the elements supposed to make up what everyone means by friendship”
“I learned long ago, never to wrestle with a pig, you get dirty; and besides, the pig likes it.”
“The characters can't be wittier than people are in real life. They have to be character witty.”
“I dont want to be broke down I want to be built up and vice versa I dont want to break down but build others up! but sometimes we need need to dismantle parts of our life so they can be rebuilt to stand stronger and longer!”
“My belief in the alien existence has made me change my previous views on God. All this time, I believe that God is almighty.
But apparently, I know somehow that even God's creations are far more fantastic than I could imagine.”
“The concept of randomness and coincidence will be obsolete when people can finally define a formulation of patterned interaction between all things within the universe.”
“I wanted a perfect ending. Now I’ve learned, the hard way, that some poems don’t rhyme, and some stories don’t have a clear beginning, middle and end. Life is about not knowing, having to change, taking the moment and making the best of it, without knowing what’s going to happen next.”
“WOndER Why HeARt BeAtS YoU HArd InSide THe ChEst.... But Still RemAIns Painless... Nd As sOOn As It StopS BeaTIng A ShArp pAin HIts You Dead.... Isnt It SuppOSed TO bE thE OppoSite Way??? NAture really cOnfUSes ME!!!”
“I think the years I have spent in prison have been the most formative and important in my life because of the discipline, the sensations, but chiefly the opportunity to think clearly, to try to understand things.”
“What happened in the past that was painful has a great deal to do with what we are today, but revisiting this painful past can contribute little or nothing to what we need to do now . . .”
“Death doesn't scare me; It's the process that gives me nightmares.”
“Enjoy the little things in life, of-course the big things too, forget all the bad things and I bet you, life is worth living..”
“Once you realize there is no such thing as perfect, you'll realize just how perfect things are.”
“There is no greater joy than that of feeling oneself a creator. The triumph of life is expressed by creation.”
“No matter what we want of life we have to give up something in order to get it.”
“I used to settle for less…but knew I deserved more…so much life to discover…what was I waiting for…to create a new beginning…I have to let go…of any pain and heartache…that my heart holds…inside I have the courage…I’m stronger I know…in this place that I am…I allow myself to go…in order to move on…I have to leave behind the doubt…because that was my then…and this is my now…”
“There will always be an opposing party or person to an idea no matter what it is.”
“The Olympics remain the most compelling search for excellence that exists in sport, and maybe in life itself.”
“Life is a matter of dealing with other people, in little matters and cataclysmic ones, and that means a series of conversations.”
“If people sat outside and looked at the stars each night, I'll bet they'd live a lot differently.”
“If only love could cure illness, heartache, poverty, or loss. Or, if everyone actually cared, took the time to go out of their way for someone, touch one life, how amazing the world could be.”
“Your peace of mind can help you get relief from all pains in life. And if you want to follow the path toward peace, you should develop selflessness and detachment as your key characteristics.”
“The More BittEr You ExPriEnce The More SweeTEr U'll FiNd... even WheN Its sweetlEss... So Learn to Be Happy with BiTTer Miseries!!!”
“Lead the life that will make you kindly and friendly to everyone about you, and you will be surprised what a happy life you will lead.”
“Selfishness is not living as one wishes to live, it is asking others to live as one wishes to live.”
“Sometimes the best gifts in life are the lessons you allow yourself to learn, the hurt you allow yourself to forgive, the strength you give yourself to move past it, and the joy in knowing you had it in you all along”
“Come as you are, leave as you please, with Christ in your heart, and God on your sleeve.”
“The Way You Were Made.
Girls Were Made By The Guys Rib,
Not From His Foot to Be Walked On,
Not By His Head For Us To Feel Superior,
But By His Rib To Be By His Side,
And Close To His Heart,
That Is How You Were Made.”
“It is a common error to suppose that the Higher Life is a matter of reading, and the adoption of theological or metaphysical hypotheses, and that Spiritual Principles can be apprehended by this method.”
“There is Grandeur in this view of life,”
“See into life - don't just look at it”
“A man sooner or later discovers that he is the master-gardener of his soul, the director of his life.”
“If you could kick the person in the pants responsible for most of your trouble, you wouldn't sit for a month.”
“We have a close relationship with our customers -- this is a place where people can come together and share life experiences.”
“I'm you, without skin.”
“That's the most physical football game I've ever played in my entire life, ... McFadden is a great back, especially being a true freshman, but they have a big, physical offensive line, too. For them to be a 2-5 team is unbelievable.”
“When walking the road of life, eat well, love everyone, and don't suck up the devil's trash”
“A happy family is but an earlier heaven.”
“Never let a problem to be solved become more important than the person to be loved.”
“No one understands the beauty of the tree until it is bare. Or cost of life until it is spent.”
“Don't worry about their lies, you're too busy living the truth.”
“There is power, value, happiness and fulfillment in a life of purpose.”
“Never go tapping into the lives of others like you know them and their story! Their story is not yours, tell yours, for that is all you know.”
“Opportunity starts with a great education.”
“There's a hole in my life.”
“I do not cry because I am sad, but because I am angry at my self for feeling negative emotions.”
“Reflect upon your present blessings of which every man has many - not on your past misfortunes, of which all men have some”
“I opened my fist to shake your hand, you closed the door and the golden fence.”
“The Only Thing That Can Heal You Is You Yourself!,
You Are The Sculpture Of Your Own Statue!
Just Mend Yourself The Way You Want To See The World Mended!
And Have Faith In Yourself!”
“Why should I fear death? If I am, death is not. If death is, I am not. Why should I fear that which can only exist when I do not?”
“Why am I trying to look for someone when I can't even find myself.”
“The best of us still have our aspirations for the supreme goals of life, which is so often mocked by prosperous people who now control the world. We still believe that the world has a deeper meaning than what is apparent, and that therein the human s”
“The United States began life in a moment of time with a Declaration of Independence, and then proceeded to secure that new and distinct national existence by establishing a formal set of ground rules - a written constitution, which outlined the institutions of government of the new nation.”
“You spend your entire life becoming God and then you die.”
“I got a simple rule about everybody. If you don't treat me right / shame on you!”
“It seemed that moment would last forever. That you had to risk your life to get love. You had to get right to the edge to ever be saved.”
“Expect the best, plan for the worst, and prepare to be surprised.”
“The branches of a tree, begin from a single seed. Welcome to life; where one decision, can affect your entire life.”
“You get out of fashion what you put into it, just as you do out of life. If you want only its rewards, and reject its disciplines, you're stuck where you start.”
“The fear of death follows from the fear of life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.”
“Hypocrisy is a fashionable vice, and all fashionable vices pass for virtue”
“I AM NOT A HANDSOME GUY,
BUT I CAN GIVE HAND TO SOME ONE,
WHO NEED HELP
BEAUTY IS IN HEART NOT IN FACE”
“But Life will suit Itself to Sorrow's most detested fruit, Like to the apples on the Dead Sea's shore, All ashes to the taste”
“To be lonely is a choice, we make the choice to be alone or we make the choice to surround ourselves with people like ourselves and make the meaning of lonely non existant”
“Conquer a man who never gives by gifts; Subdue untruthful men by truthfulness; Vanquish an angry man by gentleness; And overcome the evil man by goodness”
“Play the hand your dealt, don't play the hand you wish you were dealt.”
“For most people love is a fantasy but for others it is a fantasy that can become a reality”
“Every interaction has its reasons, every mistake has its cause and every person you meet is destiny.”
“Life is a train ride. It's a long ride to get to where you are going...and sometimes you stay on and enjoy the scenery, and other times you get off. You experience the good and the bad, but you learn from every experience...and always get back on that train...to await your next stop...your next adventure.”
“Once you replace negative thoughts with positive ones, you'll start having positive results.”
“Fate and self-help share equally in shaping our destiny”
“Write something, even if it's just a suicide note.”
“He had read much, if one considers his long life; but his contemplation was much more than his reading. He was wont to say that if he had read as much as other men he should have known no more than other men.”
“The need for some venture of faith still remains; one must stake one's life upon something.”
“My life is a struggle.”
“The prizes go to those who meet emergencies successfully. And the way to meet emergencies is to do each daily task the best we can.”
“I have always disliked myself at any given moment; the total of such moments is my life”
“The most important trip you may take in life is meeting people halfway.”
“There was no answer except the usual answer life gives to the most complicated and insoluble questions. This answer is: carry on with your everyday affairs, that is to say, put it out of your mind.”
“Keep five yards from a carriage, ten yards from a horse, and a hundred yards from an elephant; but the distance one should keep from a wicked man cannot be measured.”
“A person should not be too honest. Straight trees are cut first and honest people are screwed first.”
“Having a home, husband, and child ought to be enough for any woman's life. I mean, that's what we are meant for, isn't it? But still I think every day is a lost day. As if only half of me is alive. The other half is pressed down in a bag and suffocated.”
“Evil, what is evil? There is only one evil, to deny life As Rome denied Etruria And mechanical America Montezuma still”
“You're alive. Do something. The directive in life, the moral imperative was so uncomplicated. It could be expressed in single words, not complete sentences. It sounded like this: Look. Listen. Choose. Act.”
“Hear no evil, speak no evil - and you'll never be invited to a party”
“Middle age is when you're sitting at home on a Saturday night and the telephone rings and you hope it isn't for you”
“Life is only perfect in Dreams and in Death.”
“In doing something, do it with love or never do it at all”
“I love being married. It's so great to find that one special person you want to annoy for the rest of your life.”
“One of the most appalling comments on our present way of life is that half of all the beds in our hospitals are reserved for patients with nervous and mental troubles, patients who have collapsed under the crushing burden of accumulated yesterdays and fearful tomorrows. Yet a vast majority of those people would be walking the streets today, leading happy, useful lives, if they had only heeded the words of Jesus: Have no anxiety about the morrow; or the words of Sir William Osler; Live in day-tight compartments.”
“Preaching is the expression of moral sentiments applied to the duties of life.”
“And all good things are yours.”
“Give no bounties: make equal laws: secure life and prosperity and you need not give alms”
“When you reach the end of your rope, tie a knot in it and hang on.”
“We first share the life by which things exist, and afterwards see them as appearances in nature, and forget that we have shared their cause”
“The most unfair thing about life is the way it ends. I mean, life is tough. It takes up a lot of your time. What do you get at the end of it? A Death! What's that, a bonus? I think the life cycle is all backwards. You should die first, get it out of the way. Then you live in an old age home. You get kicked out when you're too young, you get a gold watch, you go to work. You work forty years until you're young enough to enjoy your retirement. You do drugs, alcohol, you party, you get ready for high school. You go to grade school, you become a kid, you play, you have no responsibilities, you become a little baby, you go back into the womb, you spend your last nine months floating...
...and you finish off as an orgasm.”
“Life gives nothing to man without labor.”
“Look into your heart and find your real self,
Put your mask away and show your real face!
Put your vision to reality. Wake Up and Live!”
“We do not stop playing because we grow old, we grow old because we stop playing!”
“The supreme happiness of life is the conviction that one is loved; loved for oneself, or better yet, loved despite oneself.”
“One must learn to love, and go through a good deal of suffering to get to it... and the journey is always towards the other soul.”
“It's not because things are difficult that we dare not venture. It's because we dare not venture that they are difficult.”
“Love Is When You Look Into Someone's Eyes And See Everything You Need.”
“Life cannot go on without much forgetting.”
“Hymns are companions for life travelers,”
“One who contends with immortals lives a very short life”
“The more good you do, the more good will come.”
“Maybe one day when we remember that we are animals, we will stop killing eachother like human beings.”
“Do you like being a demographic? Do you like that? Fuck no you dont!! Eventually some motherfucker is going to try to use you for their doomsday device and you say to them.. You. Can't. Destroy. Me.”
“Do something nice, say something good, hear something great today!”
“I gave you my whole heart. You gave it back in pieces.”
“One thought leads to heaven, one thought leads to hell.”
“These troops are from all walks of life. They are all unique cause they are all from Texas. They will do a good job because Texans always have and Texans always will,”
“I have always believed that God never gives a cross to bear larger than we can carry. No matter what, he wants us to be happy, not sad. Birds sing after a storm. Why shouldn't we?”
“If you are scared and hurt, hold out your hand. Come together as one, you will then understand. Your battle is immense and will be lost alone. We are Living The Dream, a family, a home. This invite is forever, don’t feel lost or adrift. We are one; our love is an everlasting gift.”
“The true test of a man is not that of his physical ability. When he can walk this earth, saying he has successfully helped man kind take one more stride further into the abyss of knowledge than he can lable himself as a man.”
“Life is like a Japanese game show, cause you have no idea what is going on!”
“You know it's love when all you want is that person to be happy, even if you're not part of their happiness.”
“Everything in life (the good, the bad, and the naughty) is a gift... The wisdom you gain from your mistakes will mold you into a better person...Regret should not be in your vocabulary...Live, Learn, Life, Love”
“We must let go of the life we have planned, And take the plan god gave us.”
“The roads of life are strewn with the wreckage of run-down and half-finished loves.”
“In the ordinary business of life, industry can do anything which genius can do, and very many things which it cannot.”
“In My Opinion... Love is like an rose flower... Have a Good Side.. It is his Beautiful... and have a Bad side.. It is his Thorn....”
“Life is a cement trampoline.”
“The winners in life treat their body as if it were a magnificent spacecraft that gives them the finest transportation and endurance for their lives.”
“Let those who would write heroic poems make their life an heroic poem.”
“I don't want to get to the end of my life and find that I lived just the length of it. I want to have lived the width of it as well.”
“My theory is to enjoy life, but the practice is against it”
“A great present is one you can open forever.”
“We don't need a painless life. It’s boring. What we need is a meaningful life. Everything we do: the struggles, the risks and the pains take different colors when they're suffered for something greater than ourselves, for the people other than ourselves, for the people whom we promise to love and fight for...”
“The Legendary Life of a Rock Star Drummer”
“As an adolescent, (Vonnegut) made my life bearable.”
“To succeed we must endure mental and physical pain.”
“Freedom requires a sacrifice the protected will never know!”
“With educated minds we should be able to clean up our own backyard before helping one another from time to time then we can all shine”
“Only those who acquire true power can be truly kind.”
“I have learned that by focusing on the life I want to live, it happens naturally.”
“With much perseverance and will, the ant seduced the elephant!”
“There are only four questions of value in life, Don Octavio. What is sacred? Of what is the spirit made? What is worth living for, and what is worth dying for? The answer to each is the same: only love.”
“A state of coupleness is attained when two people each feels that her/his number one priority is the happiness and contentment of the other”
“Life's challenges are not supposed to paralyze you, they're supposed to help you discover who you are.”
“A soulmate is someone who has locks that fit our keys, and keys to fit our locks. When we feel safe enough to open the locks, our truest selves step out and we can be completely and honestly who we are; we can be loved for who we are and not for who we’re pretending to be. Each unveils the best part of the other. No matter what else goes wrong around us, with that one person we’re safe in our own paradise. Our soulmate is someone who shares our deepest longings, our sense of direction. When we’re two balloons, and together our direction is up, chances are we’ve found the right person. Our soulmate is the one who makes life come to life.”
“Karma...you know she's coming you just don't know when or what she's bringing”
“So our human life but dies down to its root, and still puts forth its green blade to eternity.”
“The heart prefers to move against the grain of circumstance; perversity is the soul's very life.”
“Happiness in the ordinary sense is not what one needs in life, though one is right to aim at it. The true satisfaction is to come through, and see those whom one lives come through.”
“It is not only for what we do that we are held responsible, but also for what we do not do.”
“I do not know how to distinguish between our waking life and a dream. Are we not always living the life that we imagine we are?”
“Sometimes silence can be the strongest and most compassionate answer.”
“Search for contentment in each person you meet.”
“Smile at strangers and you just might change a life.”
“In the streets and in society I am almost invariably
cheap and dissipated, my life is unspeakably mean.
No amount of gold or respectability would in the least
redeem it,-- dining with the Governor or a member of Congress!!
But alone in the distant woods or fields,
in unpretending sprout-lands or pastures tracked by rabbits,
even in a bleak and, to most, cheerless day, like this,
when a villager would be thinking of his inn,
I come to myself, I once more feel myself grandly related,
and that cold and solitude are friends of mine.
I suppose that this value, in my case, is equivalent
to what others get by churchgoing and prayer.
I come home to my solitary woodland walk as the homesick go home.
I thus dispose of the superfluous and see things as they are,
grand and beautiful. I have told many that I walk every day
about half the daylight, but I think they do not believe it.
I wish to get the Concord, the Massachusetts, the America,
out of my head and be sane a part of every day.”
“Do not let your TODAY be stolen by the ghost of yesterday or the "To-Do" list of tomorrow!”
“It doesn't matter what you did or where you were, it matters where you are and what you're doing”
“What life half gives a man, posterity gives entirely.”
“Viewed from the summit of reason, all life looks like a malignant disease and the world like a madhouse”
“I can tell you, honest friend, what to believe: believe life; it teaches better that book or orator.”
“Life is short, the art long.”
“To marry is to get a binocular view of life.”
“Friendship lives on its income, love devours its capital”
“If your best friend has stolen your girlfriend, it does become life and death.”
“Just when I think I have learned the way to live, life changes and I am left the same. The more things change the more I am the same. I am what I started with, and when it is all over I will be all that is left of me.”
“I don't trust white critics' judgment about most things that deal with black life, particularly when a black person is the creator.”
“It is easy enough to be pleasant, When life flows by like a song. But the man worth while is the one who can smile, when everything goes dead wrong. For the test of the heart is troubled, And it always comes with the years. And the smiles that is worth the praises of earth is the smile that shines through tears.”
“If Scott Peterson had lost his wife and baby and was innocent, and was now on trial for his life, this would be a man who was emotionally devastated, and it would show on his face,”
“Let us not be content to wait and see what will happen, but give us the determination to make the right things happen.”
“When you said no time for love, I heard needy expression of love.”
“You must go after your wish. As soon as you start to pursue a dream, your life wakes up and everything has meaning.”
“He, in his developed manhood, stood A little sunburnt by the glare of life; While I, it seemed no sun had shone on me”
“You can learn new things at any time in your life if you're willing to be a beginner. If you actually learn to like being a beginner, the whole world opens up to you.”
“Once you tap into a source for your wisdom and understanding, love and affection, giving and sharing, support and guidance, pain and suffering - you release all the frustration in your mind and are ready to triumph over your life.”
“Life inspires more dread than death-it is life which is the great unknown.”
“Life is nothing; death, everything. Yet there is nothing which is death, independent of life. It is precisely this absence of autonomous, distinct reality which makes death universal; it has no realm of its own, it is omnipresent, like everything which lacks identity, limit, and bearing: an indecent infinitude.”
“A man's confidence is either that of a grizzly bear or a street rat. Timid or relentless he lingers in the darkest shadows of life”
“I don't make new years resolutions, I make life-changing decisions.”
“It was a real experience, not just, 'I'm going to the Olympics,' but it was a life skill, an eye-opener to the real world situation. I was 16, gone from my parents for two months, living by myself in a hotel. I was in charge of how much I ate, how much sleep I got. You grow up extremely fast. You know how to set goals for yourself, and how to work toward those goals. You know time management and how to work through adversity.”
“Appearance and reality are polar opposites”
“If your life, or the life of someone you love, is hanging in the balance, of course you would withstand any amount of abuse to get the job done and to get the life saved. Of course, you have to be convinced that person knows what they're doing. In real life, you have no way of knowing that you're dealing with the best person for the job. It's only on television that you can know that.”
“All women are born evil. Some just realize their potential later in life than others.”
“Art is only a means to life, to the life more abundant. It is not in itself the life more abundant. It merely points the way, something which is overlooked not only by the public, but very often by the artist himself. In becoming an end it defeats itself.”
“There is no meaning to life except the meaning man gives his life by unfolding of his powers.”
“Life is 440 horsepower in a 2-cylinder engine.”
“Plainly, if your life is hanging in the balance, the most important thing to you at that moment is going to see the best person for the job,”
“To have a grievance is to have a purpose in life”
“Illness is the night-side of life, a more onerous citizenship. Everyone who is born holds dual citizenship, in the kingdom of the well and in the kingdom of the sick.”
“Live your life as though your every act were to become a universal law.”
“Perfection is intensely annoying. Audiences were ready for a character who didn't obey the usual pieties of modern life.”
“Beauty is defined by the image of your soul. Taint your soul...Taint your beauty.”
“It takes a real desire to reach the ends of the world; it takes real obstacles to define that one true love.”
“I owe much to my friends; but, all things considered, it strikes me that I owe even more to my enemies. The real person springs life under a sting even better than under a caress.”
“Has this world been so kind to you that you should leave with regret? There are better things ahead than any we leave behind”
“Life is a short affair; we should try to make it smooth, and free from strife”
“Hold yourself responsible for a higher standard than anyone else expects of you. Never excuse yourself.”
“I am singular in my calling in life. A single mother to my children and a single parent to my siblings. I call it double whammy!”
“Men share the characteristics of the sun rises in the east and sets in the west, as we are born and laid to rest.”
“Each man has his appointed day: short and irreparable in the brief life of all, but to extend our fame by our deeds, this is the work of mankind.”
“keep the happy child within and let the man outside stays outside because noone is interested in knowing the real you unless he truely loves you and those are rare to found”
“I really want my father's life to be portrayed honestly. I don't want people getting drawn into the theatre because they want to see the last scene where he's shot and killed.”
“If the Fed raises rates three times, they're not doing it just to have fun. Life is good.”
“You know the Mayor's always talking about quality of life, but there is none around here,”
“They just opened their home up to these children who came from all different walks of life and loved them and cared and provided a home for these children.”
“Peter's whole essence was very joyous. He was fearless, outrageous, and childlike, and he definitely lived life to the full.”
“You have to love this job. You have to love this job, because it is, it is a life commitment.”
“You're life still goes one whether you want it to or not, you still have daily bills that come in.”
“My quality of life wouldn't be near what it is now. I wouldn't be walking.”
“The notion of the single man began in the 1950's. The idea of the bachelor as a separate life was new and obscure.”
“People call me a victim of Lebanon, say I lost seven years of my life, ... I didn't lose them -- I lived them.”
“Basically, my life is so boring, it's embarrassing.”
“Great attention gets paid to rainforests because of the diversity of life there. Diversity in the oceans is even greater.”
“We grant wishes for 2- to 18-year-olds with life-threatening medical conditions.”
“There's nothing we can do about that. There's a finite amount of money. That's a fact of life.”
“I didn't do anything to warrant my sentence, and yet the sentence you gave me is life long.”
“Sometimes the differences we achieve relate to the flower quality as well as vase life.”
“'Rocky Balboa' is about everybody who feels they want to participate in the race of life, rather than be a bystander. You're never too old to climb a mountain, if that's your desire.”
“I'm strong. I'm a survivor, and I thank God now everyday for my life.”
“Last year, we were playing for a region championship. This time we're fighting for our region life.”
“It makes life difficult ... because law changes very slowly. We have judges who did not grow up with computers and so many do not understand the technology and issues it raises.”
“I'm blessed. I survived a very serious car accident that could have cost myself my life.”
“It will bring a change in your life.”
“That's when my seven personalities came into my life.”
“A life of knowledge is not often a life of injury and crime”
“I think more businesses are recognizing the economic value of having the arts as part of town life. It's exploding. It's a very exciting development and a testament to how vibrant the arts community is.”
“The music now is about my personal life, where I'm at as a 24-year-old young woman, so it's very honest and it's very pure and it's very emotional.”
“One good lesson is not to be afraid of failure because failure was kind of obvious in my life.”
“The worker is being treated at the hospital for non-life threatening injuries.”
“Right-to-life groups won't fund us because we're Democrats.”
“When I go back, life won't be like it was. If we're lucky, our roofs are still on and our houses didn't catch on fire. If we're not, water came up to our attic and we lost everything.”
“I would lay my life on the line that the IRA has acted in good faith, and has fully disarmed,”
“There is no amount of revenue they can get that is worth a life.”
“the culture of life.”
“We really enjoy bringing old clocks back to life. These clocks often have a lot of sentimental value to their owners. Sometimes they got them from parents or relatives who are no longer living.”
“Food and fiber, produced by today's farmers, are essential to everyday life. It is important that the public understand the industry and how relevant it is to their lives. More than 15 percent of the U.S. population is employed in farm or farm-related jobs.”
“It was so small and senseless. A petty argument lost him his life.”
“Life is good. I have no complaints.”
“There is no sign of life.”
“We're trying to get a consensus. What we don't want is five different pro-life voices out there.”
“For many people, the reason they're keeping their financial life in chaos is that they really don't want to know how bad their problems are. It's pure avoidance, and it can only make things worse.”
“We feel very strongly that we need to protect all human life and treat the unborn in the womb like we would any person.”
“The pro-life community in Mississippi would love to be the first state to end abortions in the United States. We don't know that the current Supreme Court is up to meet the challenge of overturning Roe v. Wade.”
“If you're in the middle of a lawsuit and you're fighting for your life, you're distracted.”
“To this day I think we just dined and ditched. I remember running down Market Street, fleeing for my life.”
“I think the biggest factor for them is total confusion. We try and make their life as normal as possible and not have them feel singled out.”
“I never met a human being in my life who didn't like this kid.”
“Universal vaccination for hepatitis B is one opportunity to ensure newborns have a healthy life. It's also an important step toward eradicating this deadly disease.”
“She had a lot of faith in God. That was a big part of her life.”
“I must tell you, Mr. Chairman, I have never been so infuriated in my life from an event such as this,”
“There is only one failure in life possible, and that is not to be true to the best one knows.”
“There is an intensity to life here that is equally exhilarating and unnerving. It's visceral, it's sensuous and for even the most short-term visitor, you feel immediately engaged.”
“We have existing strengths in engineering and life sciences that we would like to bring together.”
“There is no private life which is not determined by a wider public life”
“The intent is to hire an individual who can both foster connections with the existing research in engineering and life sciences at Princeton as well as start new research activities and grow in this area.”
“Music is essentially useless, as life is: but both have an ideal extension which lends utility to its conditions.”
“The rapid development and enormous potential of biotechnology and life science have greatly contributed to the fight against diseases and safeguard of health by mankind.”
“Life During Wartime.”
“My life is singing. I don't plan on retiring. I plan to die on a stage. I can have a headache but when it's time to sing and I step on that stage there is no more headache.”
“His children, his grandchildren were the light of his life.”
“We miss her. She had a happy life ... she was at a point in her life where she was comfortable with herself.”
“For a company of Microsoft's size, this is good revenue growth. It shows that there is life here.”
“My closest relationships in life are with people I am not biologically related to.”
“I don't know what it means, but I'm not that pessimistic, I'm born that way. Miracles happen in life now and then.”
“I met women behind bars who exposed me to a life I never knew. Some of them told me they feel like they'll never get out of the cycle of crime.”
“I'm just excited to play college football. I think it will be one of the greatest experiences in my life.”
“Wales made life difficult for us, especially hanging in during the first half when I thought we played well,”
“She had a lot of depression in her life, but she didn't want to share it with anyone.”
“At least she made the last part of his life somewhat comfortable. He probably would have just died on the street.”
“He became more quiet and more into himself a few months before he took his life. I didn't pursue it.”
“To me it's a failure every time we keep a child in foster care for that child's entire life. You know, there should be a decision made to either re-unite a child by helping a family get back on its feet and take care of its children or we should remove the child and try to find a good loving home with the foster care system but much more importantly, trying to find a permanent home, ”
“It is absolutely necessary to have a large Norwegian unit in finance, life insurance and capital management.”
“It was 10 years ago that Brett took his life.”
“Doing service always makes you grow so much. You do it and it will change your life. It gives you a broad perspective on life.”
“I realized what a special actor he was, so I proposed to Life magazine to do a visual biography on Dean, who exemplified the kind of actors who were starting to become popular back then.”
“I get tired of everyone trying to push this and make money off it. What about quality of life?”
“Life is just so hard over there.”
“We are so ecstatic. It's awesome. At this stage in our life, it's wonderful news.”
“In this market, it's more a way of life.”
“I don't know what I did in this life to deserve all of this [on winning an Oscar 2005]”
“Any loss of life is tragic, and you know we want people to be safe out there.”
“I'm planning on having a little bit of social life this semester. But it will probably just be the bare minimum.”
“It's a World Cup ticket we're talking about now - life or death.”
“In the life of our nation, we have seen that wondrous things are possible when we act with God's grace,”
“There's also the question of how large the zone in the universe is where life can develop.”
“This leads to the question of how many places there are in the universe where life could potentially have developed.”
“I know there are some life learning experiences that I experienced last year, both personally and professionally, and I'm going to put those things behind me.”
“The best thing that ever happened to her was having that baby. It changed her life.”
“There's a tremendous amount of really historical work here. They represent my friend's life.”
“I think so, miracles happen in life now and then.”
“I just couldn't take this decision to pull out. I never did it in my life. So this was hard to me. And I think I should have done it because, I didn't go that far. Third set, I mean anyway, I couldn't play. It was too much of pain.”
“Art, like life, should be free, since both are experimental”
“The loneliest woman in the world is a woman without a close woman friend.The Life of Reason, 1905-1906”
“I haven't shied away from political and social conversations in my life, so I don't shy away from them in the films I make either. It doesn't mean that I'm out here preaching to the converted; I'd actually like to open up discussion and find ways that aren't polarizing. Films are reflecting what is going on in society. We as a society since 9/11 have, for the first time since Watergate, sat around and had outrage, discussion, polarization and arguments from both sides of the aisle. Questions are being asked. And that is good.”
“Oh, man, there was this screening the other night. One of the special nights of your life where you feel ... I mean, this was at the Warner Bros. screening room and you had Dan Rather there and Tom Brokaw, Brian Williams, Andy Rooney ... Walter Cronkite gave a speech at the party afterward. And everyone seemed to like it ... Bill O'Reilly ...”
“The Purpose-Driven Life.”
“People in Wisconsin are parochial in their buying habits. They care deeply about their quality of life. Things like wonderful Wisconsin cheeses, really fine chocolates, nice places to eat out and great beer are nice ways to enhance your lifestyle.”
“If he could touch one more life, even after death, it would be worth it.”
“Education can save your life. Ignorance will kill you and that is so true of ovarian cancer in particular.”
“The beginning of compunction is the beginning of a new life.”
“We had all of the kids over, there are seven of them now, on Sunday to celebrate Molly's life and to come here again and celebrate her life with other children to know you're doing a little something for these kids in this school and the other school that benefits from the grant,”
“We tell all the girls we want them to have a full life. They can do that and still win championships.”
“What she brings to the team, besides energy, enthusiasm and a full-of-life personality, is her experience --- under pressure, with fans, with crowds, and on a team.”
“Life is not fair. You're one game away from a championship one year, the next year they let him go somewhere else. His coaching didn't change. You never want to be where you've proved you can win but there are still questions.”
“There is a place in the party for a lot of people from all walks of life and I hope they support my candidacy.”
“The effects on the home life (include) increased anxiety, nervousness, sleeplessness that could impact on their school work. And even more significant is the fact that it's an addictive substance.”
“[That, in part, is why the Constitution's framers gave justices life tenure — to enable them to rule wherever the law and the Constitution led them, without obligation or fear of political reprisal. Former Republican president Gerald Ford recently paid tribute to John Paul Stevens, his only appointee to the Supreme Court, who is also far more liberal than Republicans expected.] He has served his nation well, ... with dignity, intellect and without partisan political concerns.”
“In my political life, and in my life in general, it has been a privilege for me to meet President Jacques Chirac and to say that he is a friend,”
“It really touched me as far as my purpose in life to see a patient sitting there and everything they went through. So it really changed my life and gave me a purpose to strive for.”
“It makes you appreciate life at a younger age. You think about the choices you make in life. You want to make sure you go out the right way.”
“There are no signs of life.”
“The other two people have not been able to be located yet. There have been no signs of life.”
“There have been no signs of life.”
“I made a decision to bring our troops home a few days early in order to spare the life of Angelo. I do not regret the decision. Every life is important. Angelo's was spared and we rejoice. We're all rewarded for it, particularly his loving family and friends,”
“Never for the life of me did I ever think I'd be in the position I am for my senior year. I've worked hard for it. And it's great to be noticed. But I'm just trying to do my best and do what I can for the team first.”
“We take that (personal life) into consideration with everybody.”
“Middle Age is that perplexing time of life when we hear two voices calling us, one saying, "Why not?" and the other, "Why bother?"”
“He's an overachiever. It's the best label you can ever have in your life.”
“Every man is the architect of his own life. He builds it just the way he wants it. However, after he has built what he wants, he sometimes decides that he doesn't like what he has built and looks for someone or something to blame instead of changing himself.”
“[Carmen Electra spoke on] Entertainment Tonight ... What can I say? It was the happiest eight days of my life.”
“I figured I was going to trust God over this doctor. Just the thought of taking the baby's life was too much for me.”
“We will have the odd incident from time to time and it obviously makes life good to you guys. Why would you complain.”
“In egotism, one is assailed by fear, he passes his life totally troubled by fear.”
“My life in this world is cursed and worthless!”
“The True Guru is the Giver of the life of the soul, the Great Giver lives forever.”
“[Doctors] said I'm going to have this all my life probably.”
“The Life of the world, the Great Giver, the Architect of karma He Himself grants forgiveness.”
“O Nanak, it is so difficult to obtain this human life, the True Guru imparts this understanding.”
“There is one piece of advice, in a life of study, which I think no one will object to; and that is, every now and then to be completely idle - to do nothing at all.”
“Some losses will create a life transition.”
“Life is good, but it's not a constant party.”
“What man, desirous of life, would injure them to whose support the ,three worlds and the gods ever owe their existence, and whose wealth is the Veda?”
“Police officers should be considering is it worth the risk of an accident or the risk of human life for the type of crime I'm pursuing. In the Lewis case, the officers just wanted to talk to two juveniles riding on a motorcycle.”
“Travis was a wonderful human being. His enthusiasm for life touched so many of us. He loved his teammates and his teammates loved him. We will all miss Travis tremendously.”
“My relationship with my father was the most central relationship of my life from the time I was zero to 30.”
“Now we see a major shift, an unprecedented shift, in Palestinian life.”
“'Rocky Balboa' is about everybody who feels they want to participate in the race of life, rather than be a bystander, ... You're never too old to climb a mountain, if that's your desire.”
“Life without Liberty is far worse than death.”
“I think in the beginning, I was fearful for my life.”
“In politics, as in life, we must above all things wish only for the attainable.”
“Life is lived in a circle. The dates keep coming back to you. People say, 'Move on.' But that implies a straight road taking you somewhere else. Nothing can take you out of the seasons of the years and the dates that recall your life. And since we were a happy family together, we had many happy days and those days are now sad days.”
“Our society has shifted to a quality of life mentality and has lost sight of the value (and) sacredness of all human life. We now as a nation are deciding when it is OK or not OK to kill those suffering from disabilities.”
“But the difference between a good film and real life is that in real life, there's the next day, the next year, the next lifetime to contemplate the ruinous consequences of easy applause.”
“We really haven't been without Terri. Terri is a part of me and my life, and she always will be. I don't feel like I've ever been without her.”
“[He also spoke about his strong interest in Television saying,] My life is too short to become a film studio, ... TV is an easier medium to work in. It's more fun. There's not as much pressure. [It's] a good medium to experiment in, without as much downside [as film].”
“Common sense is calculation applied to life.”
“Peter's whole essence was very joyous, ... He was fearless, outrageous, and childlike, and he definitely lived life to the full.”
“You have your bad, nervous days. I had some of them. Being picked up by the spirit of life and the spirit of friendship and the spirit of basketball was great.”
“Rogue [Anna Paquin], as amazingly powerful as she is, lives a potentially very lonely life. Never being able to touch anyone, never being able to have a physical relationship, never able to have children. Now, as politically abhorrent as something like the cure is, it's also humanely, socially, incredibly understandable that a character like that would take it.”
“This, Mr. President, is literally a matter of life and death. At Christmastime, when I was home in my hometown of Caribou, Maine, two elderly women were hospitalized with hypothermia. This is not theoretical. It is not theoretical when there is ice in the toilet and our elderly and low-income are at risk of illness.”
“Becoming a father, I think it inevitably changes your perspective of life. I don't get nearly enough sleep. And the simplest things in life are completely satisfying. I find you don't have to do as much, like you don't go on as many outings.”
“Doug, he's the best of keeping life at a level of happiness and spirit of 'everything's going to be great.' And you need it,”
“It's an incredible event, probably one of the biggest events of my life. It ranks up there with the birth of my kids.”
“It's a story you can't write. The Lord put something major on us here and it's turned my life around.”
“Of all the stages in a woman's life, none is so dangerous as the period between her acknowledgement of a passion for a man, and the day set apart for her nuptials.”
“[• Actress Carmen Electra, on] Entertainment Tonight, ... What can I say? It was the happiest eight days of my life.”
“While it has barely been two weeks [since the count], my day-to-day life has not changed. But [the alumni association] is definitely considering a project in Collin County to do something to alleviate the issue. What it is, I don't know. But I never would have known about it if I didn't go on this count.”
“My daughter can hear and see and smile and communicate, and she can enjoy life. She can look at you and express her love with her eyes and a smile. I'm so blessed that we have her here with us.”
“The purpose of human life and the sense of happiness is to give the maximum what the man is able to give.”
“Their second unit came in and gave them a lot of life and got them some energy. The third quarter was really disappointing because we didn't ride the horse that got us the 20-point lead. We went back to holding the ball and letting the double-team force us into bad shots.”
“There's renewed confidence - companies are feeling happy, they are feeling pretty good about life. They are saying we don't need this money for a rainy day: we can buy extra growth.”
“My mother was a wonderful woman and led a good life. She went peacefully.”
“That's probably the most incredible stat you ever want to see in your life.”
“For 15 years, I've been living the life of all things looking great, and now everything's a struggle. But it's good that we can still win when it's a struggle.”
“Life is getting ready to hit them upside the head. If you think losing to Florida is bad try to get married, raise a family and pay the bills. Being in college is about trying to develop a philosophy and trying to develop goals about how you want to attack life.”
“She's a great model. If she's ruining her personal life, that belongs to her. What she does in her private life is very private. I find it unbearable that maybe someone shot her (picture), stole the photos then sold them.”
“I'll just give you a moment to reflect: from 1976 to 1992, just remove that entire chunk from your life, and that's what happened.”
“He was on life support. It was ugly. It was very tough.”
“I've spent about a year of my life here between the four movies I've filmed. I can't imagine how devastated people must feel.”
“It was the worst thing I ever saw. It was either his leg or his life.”
“one of the amazing experiences of my young life.”
“Hurricane Katrina devastated nearly everyone's life in New Orleans; it was the least we could do for our own loved ones.”
“There are many immediate, midterm and long-term issues that will literally be life and death for people living with HIV/AIDS.”
“She's a great model. If she's ruining her personal life, that belongs to her,”
“I'm not going to defend myself the rest of my life.”
“This fight will breathe life back into the division.”
“I'm 70, I hit a drive 280 yards the other day. I never hit a ball 280 in my life. I don't know where we're going. They're going to hit balls over 400 yards. We are only 20 or 30 years out.”
“I've got too much I want to do in life.”
“That was a big change in my life. I thought I was going to be there the rest of my career. That's all I was asking for.”
“Life is hectic, and we wanted to remove as many barriers as possible to taking these classes.”
“For as long as the ride rolls forward, so too, does life. 
”
“The environment there is very harsh, with temperatures about minus 45 degrees, so we don;t know if life can be sustained. But we believe we will find organisms.”
“I think I am. But I guess I won't know until I have that person in my life.”
“Most of the debate over the cultures of death and life is about process. The debate focuses on the technology available to determine how we prolong life and how and when we end it.”
“The great epochs of our life come when we gain the courage to rechristen our evil as what is best in us.”
“[The paper] has twisted this story into a scandalous report about my personal life.”
“If many parents would just go back to the future and think about what life was like when they were children - from hopscotch to the adventure of climbing trees - it would go a long way toward promoting more physical activity by their kids.”
“She always seemed to dedicate her life to service.”
“I'm just kind of taking whatever life gives me and hoping that I make the right decision.”
“I had a wonderful childhood, coming from Cincinnati, and I think that it was great going into the life that I was going to have, where you have to start young as a dancer.”
“There is no guy in my life,”
“The wonderful thing about life it that there will always be variables. You have to see them and be aware of them to know how to react to them.”
“The tragedy of life is not that man loses, but that he almost wins”
“I've always had a passion for children and wanted to make a difference in the life of a child.”
“She's been home-schooled all of her, life, but she's been a road-racer with her dad. She stepped up (at the New Albany Classic).”
“It's a fact of life that dancers, like the athletes they are, suffer injuries and must eventually retire. We have been so lucky to have them here these last few years.”
“It's another hurdle, another adventure life has presented me, and I'm going to take it in stride.”
“She never quit taking care of people. That was the joy of her life.”
“People who sow a selfish life here on earth will reap hell thereafter. But this is not the result of the condemnation of God. One cannot reap heaven if he lives and acts against God. God is a God of love; by having humanity suffering in hell, his heart is aching. He cannot enjoy this. God's desire is to ultimately liberate even hell.”
“It's definitely one of those things I'll look back on later in life. I'll say, man, I was 19 years old, and Ken Griffey Jr.'s locker was right over there.”
“Going to Peru is, well, if you ever have an opportunity in your life to go there, you should do it because it is absolutely mind boggling.”
“In a way then, the Divine Principle, this new revelation, is the documentary of my life. It is my own life experience. The Divine Principle is in me, and I am in the Divine Principle.”
“Acquisition means life to miserable mortals.”
“It's not the easiest life in the world, but then no life is easy.”
“We are calling on leadership on both sides of the aisle to get back to it. The life of millions of people are at stake here. Folks are going to demand that Congress step to the plate and act.”
“I got married and life brought so many changes.”
“John is a fighter. He earned his medals the old-fashioned way, by putting his life on the line for his country,”
“Maggie literally saved my life that semester.”
“The speed at which the ship sank and the fact there were not enough life rafts on board confirm that there was a (safety) problem but we cannot anticipate the results of the investigation.”
“[All of the honorees appeared clearly moved by their selection.] We're still adjusting to life after playing. ... How fortunate I am to be here. The Hall of Fame is so far beyond anything you could dream about. I feel like the luckiest player in the world.”
“If they're not busy in real life with normal interaction, human interaction.”
“I'm very troubled by it. I was born and raised here. I've lived here all my life. This is the kids' school. To not have a school, part of the city's history would be gone.”
“I'm going to try to keep playing, maybe overseas. I don't see life after basketball.”
“Seriously, teen movies are great. It's work. And it's fun. But I want a real movie. About a real life situation.”
“All people hope Islam helps everything in life. Islam will make jobs. Islam will make freedom. Islam will make everything.”
“We regret the loss of civilian life, both Israeli and Palestinian, but this attack happened in Tel Aviv, and Tel Aviv is under Israeli security control and not Palestinian.”
“The thought is to really provide a more exciting experience for kids, to let them see what life on a campus is like, and imagine themselves in that environment.”
“Paradoxically, her lot in life is to be perpetually noticed.”
“It's for the kids. It's like you are giving a new life to a child.”
“The thirst of a thoughtless man grows like a creeper; he runs from life to life, like a monkey seeking fruit in the forest.”
“I have conquered all, I know all, in all conditions of life I am free from taint; I have left all, and through the destruction of thirst I am free; having learnt myself, whom shall I teach?”
“We didn't meet anyone. We didn't know anyone. It was just her and the way she lived her life.”
“But life is hard to live for a modest man, who always looks for what is pure, who is disinterested, quiet, spotless, and intelligent.”
“He who gives himself to vanity, and does not give himself to meditation, forgetting the real aim (of life) and grasping at pleasure, will in time envy him who has exerted himself in meditation.”
“I have forgiven Donald Miller, ... I don't live my life hating him. But I hate what he did.”
“I threw away 50 years of my life. Take everything you own, throw it in a Porta Potty out here, then come back in five days and decide what you're going to keep. That's what it's like.”
“Rhythm is the life of space of time danced through.”
“I'm offended by the phrase 'paid his debt to society.' It sounds as if a life were for sale. I don't think it's a debt that's payable.”
“But he who lives a hundred years, vicious and unrestrained, a life of one day is better if a man is virtuous and reflecting.”
“The only way I will believe rehabilitation has taken place in his life would be if he felt so totally remorseful that he would serve his entire sentence before he gets out.”
“Life is an onion and one cries while peeling it.”
“I got the biggest break of my life. I don't know what would have happened if the ball went in the water.”
“I have tried to be as eclectic as I possibly can with my professional life, and so far it's been pretty fun.”
“We can never insure 100 percent of the population against 100 percent of the hazards and vicissitudes of life, but we have tried to frame a law which will give some measure of protection to the average citizen and to his family against the loss of a job and against poverty-ridden old age,”
“We at the center want to get people from all walks of life to be more involved in politics. This series, in particular, we hope will generate more interest among young women in politics. We hope that young women will see that they can be more involved in politics themselves.”
“If I were starting life over again, I am inclined to think that I would go into the advertising business in preference to almost any other. The general raising of the standards of modern civilization among all groups of people during the past half ce”
“You almost could have pulled the plug on the life support. It probably would have been pretty close to the season, really.”
“It's bad. But I'll never forget Hurricane Andrew. I lost my house. I lost everything except my life.”
“This is a shocking attempt on the life of a respected human rights defender and champion of the rule of law.”
“The moral imperative is clear -- you have to build them a better life.”
“Our purpose is to help the disabled lead a productive life.”
“I call it the one notebook method. Personal, business, whatever. Everything in life goes in one place.”
“This guy's been affiliated with winners all his life, and consistent winners. The record, I think, speaks for itself.”
“What I have found working with entrepreneurs and executives is what they really want is their life back.”
“It's an economic and quality of life issue. People are witnessing the impact of illegal immigrants right in their communities.”
“But men must know, that in this theater of man's life it is reserved only for God and angels to be lookers on”
“It is so important for our program to develop awareness that there is life outside of basketball. We want to continue to connect with young people and others in need.”
“She goes by 'Chris,' not 'Christine,' in her everyday life. Calling her Christine would be like using 'William Jefferson Clinton' instead of Bill Clinton. 'Christine' is just more formal. She says that's what her mother called her when she got in trouble.”
“The spirit Harley-Davidson signifies is the pursuit of freedom, the enjoyment of life. This is not just something special for the American people. Harley-Davidson has succeeded for 100 years. We hope China will continue that trend for another 100 years.”
“It was great seeing him walk in. That was a life or death situation he was in.”
“Phyllis Hunger has dedicated her entire life to youth. In her professional career as well as in her post-professional career, she continues to support and nurture activities and programs that develop today's young people into tomorrow's leaders.”
“The world's a bubble; and the life of man,/ Less than a span.”
“But men must know, that in this theatre of man's life it is reserved only for God and angels to be lookers-on.”
“Custom is the principal magistrate of man's life.”
“They had the shoes on their feet and the clothes on their backs. He's ready to get his life back going. He said, 'I've got to play. I want to play.”
“Throughout her life, she was a role model for us all. And recognition I am glad to say is finally catching up with her.”
“The end of reading is not more books but more life.”
“I was always loving, involved with charities and family, and I had a rich life before. Now, I have a purpose. I got sick maybe for this reason.”
“Only one-fourth of the sorrow in each man's life is caused by outside uncontrollable elements, the rest is self-imposed by failing to analyze and act with calmness.”
“Suspend me for life. If they address a problem they need to address, and if my suspension will cure the problems, that'll be fine. If it'll make people more alert, I'm OK with that. But if it's going to stay the way it is, I'm not for the suspension.”
“It was very difficult. He just hasn't been the same pitcher. His velocity was down, and he had no life on his fastball. That has been missing since last year. Personally, I love him and the way he plays. Everybody likes him.”
“[But even in a league where analysis and scouting are a way of life, there's no learning experience like the real thing.] It's always different to scout someone and then to really be in the heat of the battle against them, ... And so there's no question I think it does help. ... That might not translate to wins, but at least you're not going to be surprised too much.”
“I have lived around the space program my whole life and it?s a fitting tribute for those who made the ultimate sacrifice.”
“see the possibilities of a life filled with optimism and purpose.”
“Lately we tend to make our life difficult, always starting from one goal down. Luckily, we took control of the match quickly and produced at least five scoring chances.”
“I have been fighting the Communists all my life, ... Ho Chi Minh is a murderer. We cannot forget.”
“There is no way that you can get actual justice, per se, because you can't have Stephanie's life back and trade Stephanie's life for this man's life, who has no value. And that to me is the only justice. And you can't have that.”
“The best part of my life was here.”
“so they can see what life can be like when they get older and get an apartment and a job.”
“It's not a judgment. I'm just amazed. … What do you do? … I can't imagine life without it.”
“This movie is like a little life raft for him. He laughs every time he comes to see it.”
“It has basically taken over my life. My husband and I wake up talking about it and go to sleep talking about it and we fit our professional work around the edges.”
“Let's reach an agreement. Close on this house and let me move on with my life.”
“This is not an ethnic cookbook, but rather a slice of life in Aberdeen kitchens and at Aberdeen tables decades ago.”
“You really lose your identity. Now I'm not a mom. You have to find a new purpose in life.”
“We are very, very poor. We have very few chances in life.”
“The only index by which to judge a government or a way of life is by the quality of the people it acts upon. No matter how noble the objectives of a government, if it blurs decency and kindness, cheapens human life, and breeds ill will and suspicion- it is an evil government.”
“That is not at all what it is. It's about women getting together, having fun, and enjoying life.”
“I've been through four wars. I never, never felt like leaving before. Now, life in Iraq has become unsafe. I don't feel safe in my own bedroom — or in the whole country.”
“(It's a) slower pace, people get to know each other. (It's a) more relaxed life (and) people were more cordial. It didn't take as long as I thought to … walk into a public setting and there (are) people you know, who said hello and looked at you in the eye.”
“I am really enthusiastic about my new council position because part of my satisfaction in life is feeling like I have done something. With this responsibility I hope I can accomplish things for the City of Williamstown and the people.”
“The ship went down without tilting, almost straight down. We couldn't get the life rafts out and were washed into the sea.”
“Maybe God wanted to give us a new life. They didn't kill us.”
“We told the kids it's life. Things always don't happen the way you want them to whether you're in business or playing sports.”
“We've spent 32 years ---- her whole life ---- trying to make her independent. And we feel that if they limit the bus service, Kim and her sisters in this home and their brothers will not be able to get to work.”
“Aaron is stronger and moves better this year. There's a lot more life to him.”
“We want to make sure when they cross the stage on June 9, their life isn't over.”
“This is an excellent opportunity for residents to learn critical, life-saving skills for free and to learn more about their local Red Cross.”
“Sir, I have tested your machine. It adds new terror to life and makes death a long-felt want.”
“The greatest compliment of my life”
“It has its ups and downs for sure, but when you take a second and look at life, it's beautiful. Celebrate it!”
“Mr. Cisneros moved on with his life. The independent counsel spent another six years and millions of public dollars investigating others without bringing any charges against anyone.”
“Cinema can speak to people's consciences. I don't think I've wasted this life because I've contributed something to the course of political events.”
“A whipper-snapper of criticism who quoted dead languages to hide his ignorance of life.”
“Sirs, I have tested your machine [a gramophone]. It adds a new terror to life and makes death a long-felt want.”
“Its recovery has breathed life into all the Internet stocks.”
“We will leave nothing untried to protect the basic rights of Abdul Rahman and save his life.”
“The scripture that comes to my mind is 'Jesus wept,' ... Jesus weeps today for the loss of life in New Orleans and he weeps that his gospel is being hijacked by the rabid rhetoric of the religious right -- that is in its own way as destructive to our national fabric as Hurricane Katrina has been.”
“A woman cannot do the thing she ought, which means whatever perfect thing she can, in life, in art, in science, but she fears to let the perfect action take her part and rest there: she must prove what she can do before she does it, / prate of woman's rights, of woman's mission, woman's function, till the men (who are prating, too, on their side) cry, ''A woman's function plainly is... to talk'.' Poor souls, they are very reasonably vexed!”
“There've been numerous complaints about those windows. It's so tragic that the baby had to lose his life. It's horrible. I hope something is done so this never happens again.”
“In any case, he had bungled his life. Bad husband, bad father, bad lover: failure all along the line . . . All the springs were broken. No more light anywhere . . . Everything he had tried to build had fallen apart. The little good he had done had resulted in fiasco. Whose fault could it be other than his own? . . . And anyone will tell you that if God Himself cannot undo what happened, still less can man.”
“At the heart of all of our decisions is the comfort, well-being and quality of life for our guests. Industry research, as well as our own research, confirmed a clear consumer demand for a clean, smoke free hotel environment.”
“Her willingness and desire to help others more than spans a few years. It is simply her way of life.”
“That's the devastating part, (he was) so young. Life is just actually starting for someone in their thirties, you know, so much bright future, it's just like having a star go dim, that's the best way to put it.”
“Amanda has managed her life in a way she can be proud of. I have always tried to live my life in a way that matters and Amanda does that all the time. She leads others in ways that she is not even aware of. Her quiet manner and calm ways inspire confidence. Most of all she does not have an ego and it is always her students' writing that is important. She started her Writing business despite huge odds and personal trauma. It has grown to be successful and is a source of inspiration for hundreds of people.”
“Oh! what are years? A ripe three score and ten
Hold often less of life, in its best sense,
Than just a twelvemonth lived by other men,
Whose high-strung souls are ardent and intense.”
“Life insurance was created to be an instant estate in the event of the premature death of the breadwinner.”
“Life hurries past
too strong to stop;
too sweet to loose.”
“Many people buy life insurance and forget about it. What you buy and how much you buy depends upon two things: who you love and who you owe.”
“There will be many successes in her life because she is so considerate. I hope I can find out what happens to her later in her life.”
“We're looking to give these people a better life. We're here to explain that there are many resources to help improve their lives.”
“This artificial colony on the space station is incredibly lacking compared to the quality of life on earth.”
“I'll just say he saw Roe v. Wade as occupying in that area of American life a central place and as being something that people depend on, and that has come to be very strongly embedded.”
“We realize it's just a game we're playing. That other stuff is real life. If we're meant to win, we will. But the sun will still come up tomorrow if we don't.”
“Don't get up from the feast of life without paying for your share of it.”
“He says every time he closes his eyes, he sees that dog. It was the worst experience in my life. I've never had to deal with the fact that I couldn't protect my child.”
“It's hard, you know, when someone has been with you every day of your life. He's always picking and joking, always had a smile, always pulling a fast one on you. I'm going to miss that. He never left unless he told me he loved me.”
“I have committed my life to helping the poor, and I believe that if more companies followed Wal-Mart's lead in providing opportunity and savings to those who need it most, more Americans battling poverty would realize the American dream.”
“My life is on hold, I can't work, I can't do nothing. It's very sad.”
“Life will be brought to a standstill.”
“Otis has a new lease on life. The revised report means the base will continue, but with new missions that will give it a strong future role in protecting the security of the Commonwealth and the region.”
“He's fighting for his life, and we are fighting for his way. We are carrying his flag, the one he carried in his political life, and we'll carry it forward to victory!”
“There is nothing certain in a man's life but that he may lose it”
“The kid has been let down her whole life but trusts me enough to speak to me about current situations. I'm letting her know I'll be there and watching out for her even if her foster parents and social worker changes.”
“A life of pleasure makes even the strongest mind frivolous at last.”
“promising authors in a range of fields who share Studs' fascination with everyday life in America.”
“Still, I'm not interested in challenges. All my life I've kept away from challenges-do you understand?”
“Less base the fear of death than fear of life.”
“Human activity equals a decline of the rest of life on earth,”
“This is a quality of life and economic development improvement.”
“I believe they deserve a better life, one adult they can depend on, and it helps to have someone connect with them on their level.”
“Our institutions and values are in jeopardy as the mores of the market pervade all social life in this country. Loyalty, honesty, courage, discipline, patriotism, and commitment to family are being crowded out by the goals and rules of economic rationality -- do whatever makes the most money.”
“We'll continue to support organizations that improve the quality of life for us all. We're excited about expanding in Texas, continuing to support our communities and providing career-development opportunities for our growing associate base in the state.”
“We'll continue to support organizations that improve the quality of life for us all. The landmark tower atop our bank headquarters building in New Orleans will continue to shine brightly at night and on holidays and remain a symbol of our dedication to banking excellence in the years ahead.”
“She's my best friend. She's the best girl. She's my life. She's beautiful and everybody else is crazy about her, too, ... My sister and I are totally different. She could never run the business like I do. She's the artistic side. She can do your hair unbelievable, but she wants nothing to do with the (accounting).”
“I've met all kinds of people from all walks of life and seen the dedication and the passion that they have for our outdoors, the resource program, our wildlife. I've met some great people and I've made a lot of friends.”
“Acting is great. You spend your whole life trying to get it right.”
“We will appeal to a higher court for a tougher conviction, at least for a life sentence. Not only because he was a cop, but also because of the brazen way he behaved after the rape.”
“I want justice for my child, I don't want his life to be in vain, I don't want him dying in vain...I love him.”
“I am the means and not the end. I am the food and not the life. Stand by yourself, as that boy has stood. I cannot save you. For poetry is a spirit; and they that would worship it must worship in spirit and in truth.”
“It's supposed to be a place where Christians can experience what life was like 2,000 years ago.”
“Some of the computer-based predictions are not true in real life, despite our best efforts. The park is not working and we are trying to figure out what went wrong. These are amendable issues and I think they can be worked out.”
“That person has spent pretty much his entire life here,”
“It is the largest, most consistent, all-community, life-saving effort in our Valley currently.”
“Even though he's been in public life a long time, he's got a pretty sparse record. So I wouldn't be sure in any area. I've got hunches, that's all.”
“I just hope that people will let her move on with her life. That's the most important thing.”
“Civil rights leaders are involved in helping poor people. That's what I've been doing all my life.”
“That was and still is the great disaster of my life-that lovely, lovely little boy.”
“[But another challenge for hip hotels is overcoming the short shelf life of any trend.] Being hip is catching the right vibe and the right wave at the right time, and then making sure you stay ahead of changing tastes, ... If you're hip today in 2005, then how do you stay hip in 2007?”
“Give the gift of life. What better season to come in than right now and give the gift of life ? give blood.”
“Life moves on. It's a bit like having a row with your girlfriend; if you still love her you still love her,”
“You must stay home. It will change your life,”
“It's amazing how God works and it's amazing how life works. Vernell Brown, that ball hit him right in the numbers for a reason. Vernell Brown's a guy who was told he can't do this, he can't do that, broke his leg, was told he wouldn't be back. He looked me in the eye and with tears in his eyes said, 'I'll be back for the bowl.' He was back for the bowl game and he played his heart out the entire game.”
“According to our information over the life of the agreement, China will receive only a minimal increase -- 3.8 percent -- in market access in the 14 largest and most sensitive textile apparel categories as compared to the use of the safeguard.”
“They are about her life down there, where she has some property. She spent a lot of time on the water.”
“(Membranes are) apparently where all the money and research is going. There's been a lot of increases in the life of membranes and how well they work.”
“It's amazing how life works. That ball hit him right in the hands for a reason.”
“We are all serving a life sentence, and good behavior is our only hope for a pardon.”
“You know, it's amazing how the Lord works; it's amazing how life works. To Vernell Brown, that ball hit him right in the numbers for a reason. ... He looked me in the eye (after breaking his leg) with tears in his eyes and said he'd be back for the bowl game. And he was back for the bowl game and played his heart out.”
“I'm think that all of our efforts are paying off. For every child to be successful in life, we can't afford to leave any child behind. ... The option to fail is no longer an option.”
“Christianity affects your whole life. I feel I'm more competitive, a better player, but off the field is where there is always a battle.”
“What Martha is trying to bring back is her company. This is the thing she's proudest of in her life. She has been able to go from a catering business to building a really extraordinary, multifaceted company.”
“The terrorists who are attacking our way of life do not have armies, navies or air forces. They do not have capitals. They do not have high-value targets that the typical weapons of war can go in and attack.”
“In a world where the dead are returning to life, 'trouble' loses much of its meaning. ... Land of the Dead.”
“We will be focusing on those quality of life issues: health, and education, and housing and pay,”
“You spend your whole life building a reputation and developing character. One mistake can cost you the whole tub. You have to start over one drop at a time. You feel that in terms of men's lacrosse. People are pounding the sport in a general sense. We're going to have to build back the reputation very slowly.”
“The business regarding Robbie was very good. It is very easy to say 'let's stop the clock' but life doesn't work like that. Letting Robbie go was the right move for him and the right move for us because it allowed us to get Georgios Samaras.”
“It's exhilarating. I don't have to sell another horse in my life, but I'll stay in the game because I love it.”
“As a young man trying to make your way in life, you feel your back is against the wall and you are scrapping against the whole world,”
“[Rice's claim that running for president is not] what I want to do with my life, ... falls far short of the standard formulation for declining a nomination, which was set by General Sherman in 1884 when he said: 'If nominated, I refuse to run. If elected, I refuse to serve.'”
“All judges come with certain beliefs and life experiences and things like that. You have to be able to set those things aside and decide cases based upon the law and the facts that are before you.”
“I fired, and there's Harry falling. It was, I'd have to say, one of the worst days of my life at that moment.”
“It is hard to conceive that my life would have turned out this way had I not returned to my roots and the University of Wyoming,”
“We are very concerned with the loss of life now on both sides. The level of violence appears to be escalating. That's clearly not in anybody's interest. We need to find some way to try to cap the violence and get some process started to rebuild confidence.”
“Success has come late in my life, but it feels right for me now. And better to come late than never.”
“I think it would be foolish to think we are the only life forms in this universe.”
“Ben Howland has had some of the greatest impact on my life. He was responsible for bringing me to Pitt and my development at Pitt.”
“When I write, I'm trying to put what I love into music. Everything through my life, the music that inspired me. It's a crystallization, and to be honest, it has to involve modern culture. It's gotta have elements of rock 'n' roll, because I used to love rock 'n' roll. It's gotta have a hint of jazz, it's gotta have everything that turned me on. If it was just a parody of what's been in the past, that's not honest. Music has to move forward and be creative.”
“If we vote 'no' today, ... we will condemn the people of China to a continued life of despair.”
“For the life of me, I don't understand what honest motive there is in putting this in front of this body to philosophically debate marriage on a constitutional amendment that is not going to happen, and which is enormously divisive in all of our communities.”
“I think we all agree that the loss of life is substantial the loss of property is substantial it is unacceptable to do nothing.”
“I never heard the music he was playing in my life, and I've never seen the dances he was doing in my life. It was definitely nothing of this decade. It was definitely nothing that anybody of this era would know about.”
“I have lived my life that way and I expect the people who work for me to be the same way.”
“The way I was brought up by my parents and guided through my football life by the influences of various managers means that in some ways I am black and white.”
“There's a point in every artist's life when you have to give back.”
“It looks as if the world sees Arafat as someone who ended his life as someone who was determined to prevent peace or was against it,”
“Dr. Bill Noah probably saved my life, for sleep apnea had killed famous football player Reggie White, and I was sleeping with a mask over my face, forcing air down my trachea, and I could not travel between the weight, the need to try to sleep in my recliner and my machine,”
“So life was busy and good, and since we're very social people, Vickie and I enjoyed going out often, eating at good restaurants, plus we enjoyed entertaining, and I thought appetizers consisted of lard, flour and sugar,”
“This is a very terrible day in my life, ... We are the nation of dreams, but never we dreamed about the possibility Americans -- our war allies from the First and the Second World War -- could bomb Serbia as allies of Albanian terrorists.”
“I know the laws and all their articles, but life has forced us to also live injustice and we can feel the pain and thirst for justice of every Bolivian sister and brother.”
“It's personal and I'm not a very confrontational person, I don't like that kind of thing in my life. It's still going on, and probably will go on into next year. I finally started playing better when I realized I had two choices -- either continue to dwell on it or let the lawyers take care of it and let me go play golf. It was kind of weird.”
“I firmly believe that when you give, you receive. I certainly can give a testimony to that in my life. This is a great place and I guess I try to make it a little better,”
“Be glad of life because it gives you a chance to love and to work and to play and to look up at stars.”
“He's grateful he's been given a chance to live his life. Like all human beings he has good and bad.”
“These are not necessarily church kids. They're seekers. They're trying to figure out things, the bigger things of life, spiritual issues, how to live their lives.”
“I don't think she would harm herself. I have given her the reality of how valued life is,”
“We are seeing some cases. It could be life-threatening.”
“I've lived in Zephyrhills all my life. I went to school with people from Crystal Springs. Is a paved road needed? It would be nice.”
“I basically played the music that I felt all my life, and whatever label people put on it is kind of really none of my business.”
“A Bush win is good for asset managers but bad for life insurance companies.”
“Jurors bring their life experiences into the courtroom. Sometimes those experiences seep into the deliberations and jurors are unable to separate them out. I believe a judge can do that better than a jury can.”
“The intrusion and the invasion into my life is tough because I've got children,”
“I'm trying to assemble materials for a different mode of life.”
“He's added body strength and his fastball has a little more life in it which sets up all his other pitches. He's got a tremendous arsenal. Tonight he pitched well. I can't wait until he gets to 90-100 pitch counts because right now we're using too many people.”
“Life is a flower of which love is the honey.”
“I'd trade my life for my nephew,”
“Ah me! why may not love and life be one?”
“I swing hard all the time. That's what I've done my whole life - hit.”
“I've been a loyal person all my life and I'd like to finish my career here [Lancashire]”
“The biotech industry is seeking to minimize human life for economic purposes, ... They're trying to redefine when life begins.”
“I wanted to win for you and for our players more than anything I've ever wanted in my life.”
“Apple's history of innovative management, customer-friendly focus, and great industrial design would bring new life to the music industry at a time when it really needs it,”
“Progress is the life-style of man. The general life of the human race is called Progress, and so is its collective march. Progress advances, it makes the great human and earthly journey towards what is heavenly and divine; it has its pauses, when it”
“It's a great thing to bring families and friends together and celebrate St. Patrick's Day and celebrate life.”
“The decline has taken on a life of its own just as last year's rally took on a life of its own.”
“When the Fed itself doesn't know what it is going to do after its next meeting, life becomes much harder for the forecasting community.”
“They said they had a lot of life and spirit.”
“What we have is three people injured, two from the car and one from the coach that were not life threatening injuries.”
“This probably hits a nine on the political Richter scale. Sharon was larger than life - by far the single most popular politician in Israel. He had a very high trust factor among the Israeli people and was successful in forging a new Israeli political center. Now what happens to that center if he's not able to lead his party? That's a big question.”
“The family only represents one aspect, however important an aspect, of a human being's functions and activities. . . . A life is beautiful and ideal or the reverse, only when we have taken into our consideration the social as well as the family relationship.”
“It doesn't seem real that your whole life can be taken away from you. I've done medical school and life, but this is the toughest one.”
“Science is truly a wonderful way of life. Most of the questions that need to be answered have not been answered. There are marvelous questions waiting for answers that need marvelous young minds to attack them.”
“If convicted, he may be looking at life.”
“You get people from all walks of life here -- who work in domestic service.”
“However, because of the fundamental differences I have with management regarding the approach to my personal and professional life, I think it is the best business decision for both parties to go our separate ways.”
“I feel great. It's a way of life, it's something that everyone should do. A lot of people don't do anything, but I've always believed in staying active. I would recommend this for anyone.”
“He got his life together and is putting it on the line for his country.”
“I have way more than Bode has as far as a life, I think. He just goes around trying to look for girls all the time. That's his biggest thing.”
“But I think he's at a point in his life where some things are more important to him. He understands what happiness is.”
“The first priority is preparing for a national TV game and representing Iowa State University; it's not your social life.”
“You could see right then that he had it back. There was still a lot of life in him.”
“Those of us who are now in our 40s and 50s, most of us had a sex life before marriage, and/or between marriages”
“It's not about the money, it's about coaching ? I'm a coach. It's all I've done all my life. Making me sit out last year made it appreciate it even more.”
“Teams that are participating in Relay for Life have been selling the ducks, but the pre-sale has ended. People can still come out before the start of the derby between 10 a.m. and 10:30 a.m. on Saturday and purchase ducks for $5 each.”
“The way some of these smaller stocks that have suddenly come to life and exploded might suggest that there's a bit of speculation left to be wrung out of the market.”
“The core beverage we need for life for health? It's water.”
“I would give something up if it was a matter of life or death, but for financial reasons, no.”
“Here I am trying to build a life and I have nothing to build it with. It's wrong, just wrong.”
“People do this to live a healthy lifestyle and that's exactly the type of life I want to promote,”
“I've been able to live my life, but it's been difficult. The report will have its embarrassing sections because (Barrett) has had 10 years to investigate every aspect of my life, and Lord knows I've made mistakes. I doubt there's many people that could have that kind of scrutiny for a decade and not end up with things that they'd rather not see in print.”
“Given our viewers' interest in dramatic stories of life in the courthouse, we believe this 'Law & Order' series will work particularly well on Court TV,”
“These initiatives are designed to improve the quality of life of the residents, and give them the confidence to go about their lawful business without fear of being shot at or otherwise being intimidated by criminals.”
“Having the return of these properties is tremendously important ... in reviving religious life in countries where religion was either formally or informally prohibited as a matter of practice during the Communist era,”
“He's definitely got shelf life. He's one of those rare breeds that comes along once or twice in lifetime.”
“It's pretty nerve-racking. You work most of your life for a goal, and to have that in someone else's control and have someone else making the decision is difficult.”
“It was tough. When something like that happens, you realize that hockey's a game, life is life, and that there are more important things in life than hockey.”
“It's just, you can't chalk it up to a middle-life crisis or whatever. It's not at all in her makeup. The No. 1 goal is to get her back in the newspaper and on TV. If she is somewhere, we want her to know lots of people are missing her and caring about her.”
“We'll talk about pitching for a minute, but it's not part of our life together. My escape [from baseball] is her.”
“In our own life, we don't have a lot of control over our world. When I make my own world, I'm in control. I can put them into trouble. I can get them out of trouble.”
“Life demands from you only the strength you posses. One feat is possible -- not to have run away.”
“We have a life-long commitment to the handicapped.”
“And now he's tiny, and soft like a little bud of life!”
“We only seem to learn from Life that Life doesn't matter so much as it seemed to do--it's not so burningly important, after all, what happens. We crawl, like blinking sea-creatures, out of the Ocean onto a spur of rock, we creep over the promontory b”
“And the sooner the tea's out of the way, the sooner we can get out the gin, eh? (Private Life of Hilda Tablet)”
“I learned at a very early age that life is a battle. My family was poor, my neighborhood was poor.”
“We can't come in to buy a pack of Life Savers because there are no parking spaces. It's disturbing to the town. I've lived here 12 years and it's really hard. And every time the jackpot gets big the crowds come out.”
“There were many incidents that influenced me over the course of my life. I mean, how does one first learn about human rights? It's constantly evolving, and if there was some big-bang-like event, I can't remember what it was.”
“Kevin wants to change the course of his life and just get out of the industry. It was his decision. It's a life choice.”
“The one way to get thin is to re-establish a purpose in life.”
“As repressed sadists are supposed to become policemen or butchers so those with irrational fear of life become publishers”
“My private life is private. But at the same time, I have nothing to hide. So what I will say is that I am very happy.”
“It's like 288 steps, and they are the steepest set of stairs you'll probably ever see in your life. You can't even see the top from the bottom. That's how high they are.”
“The story is about a popular local radio talk-show host and how his life crumbles as he tries to deal with an obsessive fan, troubles in his marriage and at the same time develop a romantic interest with a woman who has her own issues.”
“It gets closer every moment. Every minute it gets closer. We're friends for life.”
“Next to God and my family, semiconductors are the most exciting aspect of my life. Where else can you compete in a global environment utilizing leading edge, state-of-the-art technology on a constantly changing landscape?”
“This study demonstrates an opportunity for ED staff to guide patients with potentially life-threatening allergies toward better allergy management.”
“The fun thing is no one knows what's straight from your life.”
“The Palestinian people have apparently voted for change, but we believe that their aspirations for peace and a peaceful life remain unchanged.”
“And Mrs. Parks, who was 92 years old and lived a life that was long and inspirational well beyond that single act -- I think for all of us, her inspiration will live on.”
“This is a huge night in my life, ... I cannot tell you how proud I am to be the Emmys' first Catholic host.”
“We regret that the Chinese plane did not get down safely, we regret the loss of the life of that Chinese pilot, but now we need to move on,”
“Everything he says is based on his life and what he's been through in his career. He was trying to let us know how to handle things we might confront in our careers.”
“[He told NBC he was] very happy in my private life. ... It sounds fair to me.”
“As we start to encourage those southern tribes, I think they might start deciding that there's a better life ahead by separating themselves from the Taliban,”
“People have things in their life that sometimes make it hard to find employment. They are providing a great service for the community.”
“Laurence Foley had devoted his own life to U.S. government service and to improving the lives of others through his work with the Agency for International Development, ... He will be deeply missed.”
“In order to prevent any loss of life beyond that which may have occurred already, it would be wise for Iraqi leaders to recognize that their day is over and that this is going to happen.”
“see how he sees things and what role he intends to play in private life or in civil or political life.”
“First, as someone who has taken a pro-life stance, I believe that Congress should pursue policies that encourage the development of life-saving treatments. Second, nuclear transplantation research, if performed under the strictest of safeguards, is both moral and ethical.”
“I know that, all my life, I've been going around in a fog. You're just a bunch of molecules until you know who you are. You spend your time getting to be a big Hollywood actor. But then what? You've reached a comfortable plateau, and you want to stay on it; you resist change. One day, after many weeks of LSD, my last defense crumbled. To my delight, I found I had a tough inner core of strength. In my youth, I was very dependent upon older men and women. Now people come to me for help!”
“He began life writing classical music, ... He didn't actually write his first rock 'n roll song until he was 21, whereas he'd been writing classical music since he was 16.”
“He just made a decision to chart a new course for his life and take some time for himself.”
“if your life is not better.”
“This is the most I've traveled in my life this year -- by far.”
“We missed his energy and his life through the middle of the park.”
“You cannot live life by what-ifs.”
“It was the best time I've ever had in my life. We got along so well, the three of us,”
“It is my biggest dream in life to visit his tomb.”
“I was shocked. I've never heard it that quiet in my life.”
“It is my biggest dream in life to visit his tomb. I was happy to hear he died so he can go and visit his father in heaven.”
“You can't make the Duchess of Windsor into Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm. The facts of life are very stubborn things.”
“I see no business in life but the work of Christ.”
“Do not suppose, dearest Sir, that I am so short-sighted as to destroy my life by English preaching, or any other preaching. St. Paul did much good by his preaching, but how much more by his writings.”
“I was amazed about how he brought these characters to life, ... I was fascinated watching Paul Winchell, seeing how he interacted with these puppets and created this imaginary connection with them.”
“It would be unthinkable in Canadian public life today for the public inauguration of our supreme political figures to be accompanied by prayer.”
“It is well known that I am pro-life... But I would not seek to impose my views on the Canadian people.”
“You know, it's really hard when you lose the love of your life - many days I feel lost. But I know how Ruth would have felt about Sophie - she would have loved her - and that brings me a lot of happiness knowing my wife would have loved her.”
“I believe that if a man wanted to walk on water, and was prepared to give up everything in life, he could do it.”
“She had everything to hope for. She was really doing well in her life.”
“Consider the source. Losing is frustrating if you've never put a jock strap on in your life. But for people that compete and know how to win and know what this game is all about, it's not hard. It can be if you don't have character, if you don't have a winning attitude. But if you're a winner, let's live to fight another battle.”
“Life is too short to overreact to every statement coming out of Pyongyang. It obviously was not a helpful statement. But it was not unexpected, either.”
“Life is too short to overreact to every statement coming out of Pyongyang, ... It obviously was not a helpful statement. But it was not unexpected, either.”
“The spirit of cooperation has limited the damage which unfortunately has been very grave in terms of human life, production and infrastructure,”
“Life in Pompano is nice. While I would like to see the businesses necessary to sustain our lifestyle, I would hate to see Atlantic Boulevard turn into a concrete canyon or ghetto.”
“He made a decision to do different things with his life.”
“Suddenly the desire to write tricked back into my life again, not that I would want to tour or go on the road. Once you have been writing all of your life, it is part of what you do. What else do you do?”
“It's the best baseball experience of my life. Period. Bar none. It beats any World Series win, any World Series loss, any All-Star Game.”
“He had no unfinished business. He did what he needed to do in life, and he did it now.”
“I believe there is a reason and purpose for everything in life and if this situation allowed me the privilege to have my life intersect with the lives of the children I worked with these past two summers, than it was worth every moment”
“We're dealing with products that can literally mean the difference between life and death, so it is imperative that we have the expertise in-house to make sure we are providing our customers the technical know-how to provide better care for their patients.”
“Michelle's remained humble, normal, centered. There's a passion for the work and the actor's life. She loves what she does.”
“I believe there is a reason and purpose for everything in life and if this situation allowed me the privilege to have my life intersect with the lives of the children I worked with these past two summers, than it was worth every moment,”
“My goal is to give students a real-life picture of what this life is like. Students can really decide whether this is what they want to do.”
“There is a great chance and hope that after the elections, we will begin a new life in different Serbia, Serbia, which is sinking day by day, today depends on one man... and that is frightening.”
“In real life, I just got my ass kicked [and] I went home, but that's not a funny episode,”
“I never in my life thought I'd end up in the state of Minnesota. It never crossed my mind coming to Minnesota.”
“I hated all my life. I hated everybody. When I first grew up and I can remember, I was dressed as a girl by Mother. And I stayed that way for three years.”
“As we all know, Britney and Kevin's life together has been played out in front of the public through Internet speculation, the gossip columnists and entertainment magazines. But now, for the first time, their millions of fans will get to see and hear the couple's real story ... as told directly by them.”
“If someone talked to you the way you talk to yourself , you would have kicked them out of you life a long ago.”
“This is about life. It's about academics, it's about the things that really matter. And that's the thing I'm the most proud of.”
“Over the long haul of life on this planet, it is the ecologists, and not the bookkeepers of business, who are the ultimate accountants.”
“As we all know, Britney and Kevin's life together has been played out in front of the public through Internet speculation, the gossip columnists and entertainment magazines, ... But now, for the first time, their millions of fans will get to see and hear the couple's real story ... as told directly by them. ”
“All we discussed (with Caro) was what is the truth of this woman and the life that she's led. All of a sudden, when you get the answer to the emotional side, the physical elements just come quite organically.”
“I object to people running down the future. I am going to live all the rest of my life there.”
“Now, what I want is Facts . . . Facts alone are wanted in life.”
“Music was his interest and his life.”
“The Henry Hampton Award recognizes those foundations and independent filmmakers whose stories bring critical issues to life. The Film and Video Festival, one of the highlights of our annual conference, celebrates the importance of philanthropic investment in media and the hope it offers for advancing groundbreaking documentaries.”
“I pass my whole life, miss, in turning an immense pecuniary Mangle.”
“I really like the fact that I can have a life for myself and have enough time to have a great time with Robert.”
“We challenged our agency to depict the life experiences of our frequent business travelers in a thoughtful and differentiated way. The quality and uniqueness of Dragon's innovative animation technique helps us to achieve our goal of making that special connection with our most valued customers.”
“I'm really interested in the history of life in general. How life began to how birds evolved to what our ancestors looked like.”
“Our church is very pro-life. It is not, however, a test of membership.”
“I don't know life without vandalism. It's an ongoing thing.”
“I adopt a very simple approach. I observe and reflect real life and ordinary people and sooner or later that raises a laugh.”
“I do enjoy grinning manically at passing people while waving an axe around attempting to kill off unwanted plant life.”
“I believe that's what's deserved in this case and I believe if you take somebody's life you should give yours up in return. This guy took four lives and unfortunately we can only kill him once.”
“Our expertise in long-term space missions makes us confident that we can ensure life support for a manned mission to Mars.”
“Previous winners have come from all walks of life in our community, and they all had one thing in common, the uncommon way they cared about our community.”
“The only reason I'd go back to New Orleans is for closure, ... My life has gone through a dramatic change that I could not have done on my own. I was squinting before, but now my eyes are wide open. I'm blessed and grateful to be where I am today.”
“The young man lying between the rails did not wake up ... which apparently saved his life.”
“If anything I am doing makes this war end one day sooner, one life sooner, then there is no amount of time or sacrifice that goes into this (that) is not ultimately worth it.”
“Are you kidding me? It's a four-day party in Houston, and life doesn't get much better than that.”
“Half the joy of life is in little things taken on the run... but let us keep our hearts young and our eyes open that nothing worth our while shall escape us.”
“She just loves school, ... She is a school person. She loves children and life. She is a very good example for the kids.”
“I was never really a career woman, you see. My life always came first. When I got nominated for 'Diary of a Mad Housewife,' I didn't think, 'Aah, now I'll get more money.' My dream had always just been to do my works well, fall in love and build a life for myself.”
“The right-to-life principle is the cornerstone of American law. The logic of abortion is not only wrong, it has put American culture on a dangerous moral slope.”
“Federal court candidates, who serve for life, should explain their judicial philosophy and their method of legal reasoning.”
“When was the last time that a covert agent's name was leaked, jeopardizing that agent's life, the life of that agent's network, of informants and the security of this country? ... This is not just another ordinary leak.”
“She wanted to go somewhere and accomplish things. For her life to be taken is just unfair.”
“Separate from the pleasure of your company, I don't much care if I never see another mountain in my life.”
“I have been trying all my life to like Scotchmen, and am obliged to desist from the experiment in despair”
“In Russia, we have always respected and have great respect the people who take up the monastic life here. Russia has always had strong bonds with Mt. Athos. All its spiritual roots are linked with Mt. Athos. In my country, all the social strata have great respect for Mt. Athos,”
“I believe virtualization is a current or coming fact of life for every information technology vendor. Vendors who figure out how to easily integrate virtualization features into their solutions will have a leg-up on competitors.”
“More and more people who have been injured or think they've been injured come forward. It takes on a life of its own.”
“There are special people in your life that you meet along the way. You can see they're going places.”
“Of course, I am not indifferent about whose hands the country that I have dedicated my whole life to ends up in, ... But if every new head of state who comes to power changes the constitution as he sees fit, soon there will be nothing left of this state.”
“We do like to show our kids how math and science is used in real life. A lot of the people we invited are experts or have knowledge of a craft that we as teachers might not have access to (so) this gives the students something extra.”
“This is the beginning of filling this building with life again. It will provide new educational opportunities.”
“Life has overtaken our original plans, and we're hear tonight to talk about the tragedy this weekend. We're here to talk about what happened and to try to prevent it from happening again.”
“Basketball is basketball, but life is life. That's a tough situation. He's a mature guy.”
“We got a chance to meet a girl who spent most of her life in foster care. You could sense, even though she was over 18 and she wasn't going to be adopted, you could still sense how much she still wanted to be adopted, how much she wanted a place.”
“But things which looked impossible a short time ago are becoming facts of our life. Distinct elements of stability appeared in our country, and that is valuable for politics, for economics and for every one of us,”
“It is a fact of life for most kids. Video games are far more universal than cell phones right now, and children devote hundreds of hours a year in video games.”
“We talk way beyond baseball. When it comes to life experiences, I go to him for that. When it comes to baseball, he talks to me. We kind of swap information.”
“Orlando's character, at the beginning of the movie, is defining success and failure. But then life comes along and trumps that.”
“Our main task is to save the life and health of those who have ended up as hostages,”
“It's a question now of there being life after golf. I'd like to try and get back onto the European Tour fulltime again. But if that doesn't happen, I'll be happy to stay in South Africa and play the circuit here. I'm a family man and I have a good support base here.”
“I really do seek to create music that is timeless, ... Each project takes on its own life, and the songs from A Time To Love are the most appropriate for the statement I wanted to make.”
“Once they killed him, they continued to use his car and home. They envied his position in life.”
“[That's something her lawyer says she's willing to do.] She wants them back, ... That's her life.”
“If we were the team that won out, then life was good and we felt that we were worth something.”
“For 27 years, it meant only one thing. And we carry a message about the life on this planet and the quality of it is sacred. Very simple, but sometimes complex.”
“It's both a precedent and a permanent answer to a permanent problem -- a life-and-death problem -- and why should we settle for anything less? And why should any other communities and citizens have to settle for anything less?”
“the most excruciating thing she's ever gone through in her life.”
“I can't imagine life without him. He completes our family.”
“She wants them back ... that's her life.”
“I have been in the maritime industry all my life . . . he is one of the most outstanding guys in terms of his professionalism as a captain and as a human being in terms of his generosity.”
“Singing is the love of my life, but I was ready to give it all up because I couldn't handle people talking about how fat I was.”
“Life in our family changed when we adopted him. It has been challenging, but very rewarding.”
“It's like having a big sister around who's been able to show me some things about myself and about life and about this crazy sort of career thing,”
“It's more than strange, it's disturbing. Baseball was the sport growing up in Brooklyn. The Brooklyn Dodgers were everybody's life. Then, all of a sudden, they're leaving. They're going to a foreign place. I was angry. I never lost that anger.”
“Life is full of choices. They could have called for help. They could have stopped and walked away. They made their choice that day, now they must pay the consequences.”
“She's in her seventh or eighth life as a basketball player.”
“Diversity is not a characteristic of life; it is a condition necessary for life ... like air and water.”
“Life goes by really fast, and it seems that there are times when you're burying a lot of friends and family. And then there are times that feel really precious and everybody is doing okay. This is one of those times.”
“I just do not want to be a part of ending that life.”
“[Stuff that's published in Found is] anything that gives you a glimpse into someone else's life,”
“I experienced again in my recent conversations with Mikhail Gorbachev how much Raisa influenced her husband and his life, and how they both belonged together,”
“Wow, I don't even know what to say. Those final ten laps were the hardest in my life. The race reminded me a lot of 2002 when I won my second Indianapolis 500 -- to be able to win the first time in a touring car is just an amazing feeling. I'm so fortunate to have had this opportunity and to have been able to compete with three wonderful drivers. We had a great team and a fantastic car. I just consider myself lucky to have been in the right place at the right time.”
“We must involve them [former extremists] in normal life, otherwise they will be excluded from this process. Whenever people abandon extreme forms of resistance and become involved...in political activity, this is an enormous plus.”
“When you are working testing weaponry of destruction of life, you should not associate it with 'divine'. We want this insanity to stop. No more bombs and no more testing.”
“I lived with fear all my life and now I'm not afraid of anything. It's my story, and I think I happen to be lucky.”
“My whole life and my whole culture is Louisiana. It's in New Orleans, and it's hard to walk away from that.”
“There is no question but that the positive shelf life of a new stadium has shrunk considerably. The new parks in themselves can't be a long-term or mid-term panacea for the problems.”
“I came back wanting to listen to my elders and talk to others about all that happened in my life.”
“Although we would have liked to play a game, there are more important things in life than football. We understand the decision and our thoughts and prayers go out to the families and friends affected by Hurricane Katrina.”
“Each touch is like the last touch in your life. Each touch it's like you have to put in all your concentration, all your idea and all your emotion. Without this, the sport will be not interesting.”
“The people he needs the most in his life were taken away from him. I mean he's been through so much. He doesn't understand what's going on. He thinks he's being punished. . . . And it's so hard for me to go see him because I have to leave him.”
“It is better to lose everything you have to keep the balance of justice level, than to live a life of petty privilege devoid of true freedom.”
“Through death all life is converted into food for the inconceivably vast maw of eternity.”
“She (Victoria) can't lie to save her life. She takes responsibility for everything she does.”
“I don't know. Obviously, it's a major crisis that has happened in his life. He's a young man who is very close to his mother and very close to his family. But I think I've gotten to know this young man and he's such a quality person and he cares so much about this hockey team that I believe he'll come in and do his very best to pay attention to what has to happen.”
“We lose a very important guy out of our lineup, but life does go on and hockey doesn't have to be a priority all the time. We just have to get ready to play now and we'll wait for when we hear from Wade again.”
“I wish I could play puppets the rest of my life, ... You don't have to worry about hair and make-up. You're not trapped by your envelope.”
“It would be pretty weird if I didn't have Olympics in my life, I enjoy it so much.”
“I hope they can continue. They're going to be successful in life because of who they are.”
“Parker had the game of his life, to his credit obviously. We put Brian (Randle) on Parker and James (Augustine) on Claxton. Every time we made some adjustment, they adjusted.”
“There are three movies that I am exceptionally proud of in my life, ... and I rarely commit to a list of films that I like, that I've made -- but these are the three films that I was passionately connected to -- the first was 'ET,' the second 'Schindler's List,' and third is 'Saving Private Ryan.'”
“I promise you I'll cherish that win for the rest of my life, but not right now because of what's next.”
“I thought we didn't have a lot of life. We started the game shooting a lot of jump shots.”
“There are three movies that I am exceptionally proud of in my life, and I rarely commit to a list of films that I like, that I've made, ... but these are the three films that I was passionately connected to. The first was 'ET,' the second 'Schindler's List,' and third is 'Saving Private Ryan.'”
“There have been loads of times I have regretted meeting Paul because I was so happy in my old life.”
“Comrade life,/ let us/ march faster,/ March/ faster through what's left/ of the five-year plan.”
“Looking around the room, I saw the leaders of the pro-life movement on the platform committee. The leaders of the pro-life groups are very conservative -- and they are very conservative on gay issues, too.”
“I wish more people knew Steve Howe the way I knew him. His struggles in life were well documented, but he always tried to fight through them and I will always respect that. My thoughts and prayers go out (wife) Cindy and his family.”
“We needed a big hit, we have been missing it. He came through big time. It sure makes life easier when you get a big hit.”
“(Football) is a way of life down there.”
“It's a bad time right now, but life goes on.”
“To get that goal, my life couldn't have gotten any better. To have people say that, and then to go out and do it and get the winning goal-it was so ironic it was scary.”
“Never in my life did I think we would be one and five in anything. That's how I feel. But it's happening. So we just have to keep coming out there and play hard.”
“The section that failed was probably built around 1895. The design life of our structures is 50 years, so it's more than doubled its design life.”
“Talk to your doctors about what cancer screening tests are best for you. It could save your life.”
“It could cost you your life.”
“[You were watching] Battle of the Network Stars, ... The Facts of Life.”
“Basketball is a minute part of his life. Now is a crucial time. Hopefully he will be healthy.”
“It's attention well-deserved. He's performing every day like he's been in the big leagues all his life.”
“Besides my mother passing away when I was 18, this is in the top three (worst times of his life,). It's like a funeral, that's what it feels like.”
“I'm very gratified by the confidence my colleagues have shown in me. I'm also delighted to use a life of learning toward something that's so meaningful to me.”
“I'd like to ask everyone to come out and help save a life. One day we know she will need it. We appreciate anyone who comes out and we hope to see everybody who can give.”
“There hasn't been anything in my life that I would regret, ... and I don't consider myself a fuddy-duddy. The only thing I don't have is an iPod.”
“We took care of each other in life ... he protected his sisters and we'll take care of each other in death. I have no doubt Sean would have done this for us.”
“I never thought this day was going to come so quickly. I am sure my life after basketball is, hopefully, going to be even better.”
“In the NBA, the life that we live is great. All situations are a test for you to overcome. (Coming off the bench) is something that I'm going to have to overcome if that's what the coach decides to do. That's something that's way out of my control. I've just got to do what I can do when I get in, provide any inspiration and help that I can.”
“It was great. It was like a place revisited in my life. And I think the first quarter, it took me a quarter to kind of feel as comfortable as I should. Then once I got that first quarter over with, it was great.”
“People go through those things in regular life and basketball. I'm not the first person who's had a span of games where they didn't play particularly well. ... It's just my turn to go through it. It's the first time in my seven-year career that I played probably four or five games that weren't really, really good consistently.”
“They should figure a strategy to make life more difficult for producers... It might mean China wouldn't have to spend so much.”
“I think we picked up life from the New Jersey game. Our penalty killing is unbelievable, and once again our penalty killer is Garnett. Our forwards and our defensemen also are doing a great job blocking shots and applying pressure. We're making smart decisions.”
“My hope is they will learn to apply the six pillars in their everyday life.”
“Public safety is essential for a community's quality of life, and it's one of the first things people look at in judging a city.”
“The most important seed I can sow in this life is my children, and the love and knowledge that I can bestow upon them and the help I can give them.”
“My philosophy of life is when you get up the ladder you want to reach back and give someone a hand, just like someone did for you years before. They are wonderful role models and the very personification of caring.”
“It's really a big part of my life, and so it is with my children.”
“She loved life, every minute of it. It's mighty hard for somebody that young to go that way.”
“He has never skied in his life. He doesn't even know what snow is. He only understands football.”
“With the adversity I've been through in my life, he helped me through it. He's a great man. I'm just happy to be in the circle. I love you for that, coach.”
“I can look back at different times in my life when I felt I could not find my way out of whatever it was. I'm not necessarily talking about marriage, but I wanted to pack it in. I wanted to disappear. A lot of that has to do with being in the public eye. ”
“It wasn't a choice of mine to come here. I appreciate it. It is a better life.”
“That was probably the happiest I have been in my short life. Toward the end I kept thinking about everything, and it just built up when we won. I couldn't believe it.”
“Volunteering is at the very core of being a human. No one has made it through life without someone else’s help.”
“The Life Comes At You Fast campaign is about everyday people, experiencing the unexpected moments of life, some of which Nationwide can help you prepare for. What better way to allow people to express their personal experiences than on one of the world's biggest stages, New York City's Times Square.”
“The business itself had fulfilled its life span. Basically, it was time to move on.”
“My quality of life is the priority. I wanted to have fun here, to enjoy the Olympic experience, not be holed up in a closet and not ever leave your room. People said, 'Why can't you stay in for the two weeks, three weeks? You've got the rest of your life to experience the Games the way everybody else does.' But I like the whole package.”
“(Judah) will probably put up a much better fight because he's fighting for his life, in effect, than if he had just won a victory over Baldomir.”
“The crux of the campaign is, your life can change in a moment and you have to be prepared. Humor has always been part of our campaign. It opens the door to healthy discussions because it's that kind of (product) people are afraid of and depressed by. We want to take those stigmas away.”
“I love my native city Kiev and want to make life better there.”
“Our founders understood: First life, then liberty, then the pursuit of happiness,”
“I want to become Kiev mayor because I love my city very much and want to improve life in it.”
“Most of the evils of life arise from man's being unable to sit still in a room.”
“One day, we may all be wearing them. After all, life's too short. Life won't wait just because your feet hurt.”
“With the price of life these days, you've got to get everything for free you can.”
“I just tell them one thing -- just remember: It's their life at stake.”
“I just want that to stay with them so if something in their life doesn't seem right they'll know that they'll have to do something about it.”
“reduce research and development of life-saving medicines.”
“Coach L is a teacher who teaches life to these guys. There's definite respect. He knows what he is talking about. He has more confidence in Chris than Chris has in himself. That means a lot to me.”
“Fred has a pressing need for life insurance to ensure that Wilma and Pebbles could maintain their standard of living if he were no longer able to provide for them.”
“An actress's life is so transitory-suddenly you're a building.”
“Batman doesn't have anyone who depends on him financially and therefore probably doesn't need life insurance.”
“You need life insurance if somebody will suffer financially when you die.”
“He's doing nothing different except not going to work. His life is still the same.”
“It's degrading. All I want to do is live my life.”
“There are wonderful opportunities for students instead of getting caught in the bubble of college life to get involved in the community and prove that they can affect change at the local level.”
“It's definitely been a passion. It's taken over my life.”
“I'll remember this for the rest of my life.”
“He has a great passion and vigor for life. He has great respect for people - where they come from, what their heritage is and what their beliefs are.”
“He has a great, great vigor for life.”
“My brother's been an overachiever his entire life. I think none of us expected him to do anything less in this whole process. We know that top on his mind is getting back to his family, to his kids and getting back to doing what he loves to do.”
“It's almost like they were told what would you do if you had six months to live? They lived life to the fullest this year. They lived life to the fullest and they shared life to the fullest.”
“Why did we sign up? Because it's a business, and if you expect to go anywhere in this life, you've got to take a chance now and then.”
“Rodney is doing fantastic; he's thinking maybe this is a life lesson.”
“I think you'll be amazed at the maturity we've gotten in the areas of hardware, battery life and software.”
“Encore implies that life is not a continuous process, that there's some sort of finite number of achievements that defines your life. For me, there are a lot of exciting things in front of me at Microsoft, things that we want to see if we can make ha”
“We really think that cooking is a life skill. Home ec is not really taught in the schools anymore, but it's important to learn the basics, the nuts and bolts of cooking, and be familiar with the kitchen.”
“The service is designed to be a celebration of David's life with tributes from a wide range of family, friends and contributions from groups David spent his life working with,”
“He worked all his life to be this type of student, and now he has this setback. He'll go to school, but just not when we thought it would be. We trust God. We know that He has a plan for Matthew.”
“David's death has touched many New Zealanders. This memorial gathering enables us to celebrate his life and achievements.”
“He was my most significant mentor in life, which includes my life in politics, in public service and in medicine.”
“It is known that the brain shrinks over the course of a person's life, although the exact trajectory is not well understood, and there are huge individual differences.”
“Intellectual life was enormously affected by an understandable revulsion to Nazism, with its pseudoscientific theories of race, and its equally nonsensical glorification of conflict as part of the evolutionary wisdom of nature.”
“I am pro-life. . . . An embryo is nascent human life. It's genetically distinct. And it's biologically human. It's living. This position is consistent with my faith.”
“Political equality consists of recognizing, as the Constitution says, that people have certain inalienable rights, namely life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Recognizing those rights is not the same thing as believing that people are indistinguishable in every respect.”
“Having previously represented oil, mining, and timber companies in her private life, Norton consistently gave those interests special treatment while pulling agencies she oversaw away from their role as stewards of the land.”
“Knowledge is like an endless sea. We can't know everything in life.”
“He was the joy of my life. Words cannot describe what he meant to me ... Sometimes in life you need a little joy, and Smith was it for me.”
“I wasn't prepared to expose stories about something so special and wonderfully private that is happening in my life. I guess a part of me wishes that I'd never have to and that maybe I could protect this special time. I was dreaming.”
“In my personal life, however, I want to achieve more babies! But I'll probably go back to work mid-next year.”
“I don't think it does. These are people who struggle with their life. The compound shows a very different side of it. What this show does is really examine marriage as an institution ... It's marriage writ large.”
“These four officers on trial were protecting the American way of life. While we go about our daily affairs and wear wool suits, they wear bulletproof vests.”
“Basically, it is
 going to expand our services and extend the life of our service to the end of
 the next decade,”
“The two most important issues for me are gun rights and pro-life.”
“He gives us what we're looking for. He's excited. This is a new lease on life type of thing for him.”
“This is not a basketball issue. At this time in his life, being closer to home will hopefully enable Micah to resolve some of his issues.”
“When you're a president, or prime minister of Canada.... your life is a constant battle between trying to pursue the agenda you (promised) to implement and trying to deal with all the incoming fire, the events of the day that you can't control,”
“I've always liked him. I've always admired him. I mean, he gave his life to public service. He comes from a family who did. His father was a distinguished senator from Connecticut,”
“Insanely Great: The Life and Times of Macintosh, the Computer That Changed Everything.”
“It was a senseless crime. He lost his life for nothing.”
“The added factors of shooting animals with a camera, rather than a gun, are compassion and respect for life.”
“Today we are learning the language in which God created life.”
“In Darla, we feel like we found a real-life Flo. Darla is very real. She's always talking and going back and forth.”
“It was nice to get a taste of their life,”
“We're showing that there is life after this and if it happened to us, it can happen to anybody,”
“There's always competition out there. That's what makes life exciting.”
“It's teaching students skills they'll be using for the rest of their life, and that's the reason I love the senior strategies class so much.”
“We have to be realistic. If we don't win, life will continue.”
“The string is running out. It doesn't look good. Diplomacy is on life support, ... Larry King Live.”
“To be around YB, you'd think he's led the most charmed life, ... Without having walked a mile in his shoes, I'm afraid that, no matter what I say, I may shortchange the hardship he's gone through to get to this point. His perseverance is remarkable.”
“I don't want our guys to think it's a matter of life and death. I'd hate to think that the game has reached that point.”
“I'm really enjoying life at Villa. I'm having a good regular run in the side, and I hope to keep that going,”
“Women received their dead raised to life again: and others were tortured, not accepting deliverance; that they might obtain a better resurrection: / And others had trial of cruel mockings and scourgings, yea, moreover of bonds and imprisonment: / They were stoned, they were sawn asunder, were tempted, were slain with the sword: they wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins; being destitute, afflicted, tormented; / (Of whom the world was not worthy:) they wandered in deserts, and in mountains, and in dens and caves of the earth.”
“He made a way to his anger; he spared not their soul from death, but gave their life over to the pestilence; / And smote all the firstborn in Egypt; the chief of their strength in the tabernacles of Ham: / But made his own people to go forth like sheep, and guided them in the wilderness like a flock.”
“Wherefore do I take my flesh in my teeth, and put my life in mine hand? / Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him: but I will maintain mine own ways before him.”
“What man is he that desireth life, and loveth many days, that he may see good? / Keep thy tongue from evil, and thy lips from speaking guile.”
“For my life is spent with grief, and my years with sighing: my strength faileth because of mine iniquity, and my bones are consumed.”
“He draweth also the mighty with his power: he riseth up, and no man is sure of life.”
“He's on the auction block, he's living the life. You pay so much for the car and so much for the experience.”
“In the film, my mouth is so wide open it's embarrassing. His real purpose in life was to paint and that's where he really spoke to us. That's where he was most comfortable.”
“The lilies are symbolic of both life and death. It's particularly fitting during the Christian Holy Week that we remember those whose lives were not able to bloom because of the despair they felt from their church's teachings on homosexuality.”
“Though you have made me see troubles, many and bitter, you will restore my life again; from the depths of the earth you will again bring me up”
“I seriously wonder if he would go to a premier of a movie about his life because he would have other things to do. He was not into the pomp and circumstance of celebrity or fame. He was into fulfilling his destiny of making art. And I think he would have been happy and bemused, but he would have probably been on his way to Horn Island.”
“Understanding is a wellspring of life unto him that hath it: but the instruction of fools is folly (Proverbs 16:22).”
“The way of life is above to the wise, that he may depart from hell beneath (Proverbs 15:24).”
“The opportunity to see life they way one of one of our greatest Southern artists actually lived it is just extraordinary.”
“Victims of sexual assault experience traumatic, life-changing events, ... We should work to protect their privacy, not compromise it.”
“Thou wilt show me the path of life: in thy presence is fullness of joy; at thy right hand there are pleasures for evermore (Psalms 16:11).”
“Wisdom is the gray hair unto men, and an unspotted life is old age (Solomon 4:8).”
“Earth's a great place, and that's where our life is, ... And it's time to get on with it.”
“For wisdom is a defence, and money is a defence: but the excellency of knowledge is, that wisdom giveth life to them that have it.”
“Let people know it's time to have fun, and start living life again. That's the only way to bring it back.”
“You go to a Green House and you see life. It's a place for people to come and thrive. We want to make, perhaps, their latter years their best years.”
“He's been a thrill to have. Sometimes guys say, 'well, it's time for me to move on with my life,' but he enjoys the game and he's got the rest of his life to live and work. As long as he can swing the bat, I think he's going to stay around.”
“There's no reward in life without risk.”
“I had never experienced it before in my life, and it was actually really shocking. It's really unacceptable, it's a total disaster.”
“(The game) doesn't duplicate a real-life situation, but it comes close enough to give you knowledge and courage.”
“Trophies can take over your life. So I keep them in three areas.”
“I have two interests in life, community and Judaism. This job allows me to do both.”
“He had never known anyone who had lived one place their whole life and I had never known anyone who had been so nomadic.”
“People seem to marvel at how primitive it all seemed. But when you consider what life was like in Florida 30 or 40 years before, it's amazing how things progressed.”
“This is the best five years I spent anywhere in my life. I didn't have anything but one book bag when I got here. This was a city known for football and we turned it into a nationally known basketball program. I'm proud of my achievements.”
“It may well be the happiest day of my life. We had given up hope.”
“The last six weeks have been the toughest of my life and it's the hardest decision I have ever had to make,”
“This is a very highly innovative product that will improve the quality of life for millions of Americans with diabetes.”
“As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him (John 17:2).”
“This product has the potential to improve the quality of life for millions of Americans.”
“As a historian, I'm grateful for any opportunity to show people what life was like back when the county was just getting established. To me, knowing how everyday life was back then gives us a perspective as to how far we have come since.”
“In life and in business, there are two cardinal sins,”
“This is a watershed decision (that) reaffirms the liberty, dignity and privacy Americans cherish at the end of life.”
“People are looking for more authenticity in their life. People are excited about truthfulness. It's OK to aspire to be like Famous Person X, but it's also great to say I can relate to this other person because she's authentic.”
“To do this and to have such an awesome obligation, not everybody gets this opportunity in life.”
“The song evolved from the situation of my daughter's life ... her life-threatening illness. I was extremely broken-hearted.”
“He had a great life here, he loved Edmonton. It's just too bad Edmonton let him down.”
“I haven't really thought what my life would be without hockey. There's not enough time to think about it.”
“He spends his life explaining from his pulpit that the glory of Christianity consists in the fact that though it is not true it has been found necessary to invent it.”
“Live joyfully with the wife whom thou lovest all the days of thy life of vanity, which he hath given thee under the sun, all thy days of vanity: for that is thy portion in life, and in thy labor wherein thou laborest under the sun”
“We already have a good business in the U.S. with Jackson National Life, which we are looking to grow. We would always consider an acquisition, but only if it makes economic sense and the circumstances are right.”
“Trial and error is what life is about, let alone going into a war zone.”
“In all of my life, as a player and a coach, I have never had to go into triple overtime. We were just running on adrenaline at that point. The only thing you're thinking in that situation is that you hope your kid scores before anyone else has chance.”
“I have never met a guilty gangster in my whole life.”
“I was calling double faults on girls from Russia I'd never seen before in my life, ... For a while it got so bad that I go scared. I literally scared me. I was getting 20 out of 20 right, and we're talking about guys who almost never double-fault.”
“That could give the housing market in California another year of life before it slows down.”
“A life without parole can be more demoralizing than a death sentence. It's the death of hope.”
“My life has been always on and off, on and off, never finding myself.”
“As far as control and stuff is concerned, I never had any more in my life than for that All-Star game in 1934.”
“You coach all your life to see something like that.”
“O remember that my life is wind: mine eye shall no more see good.”
“If there be laid on him a sum of money, then he shall give for the ransom of his life whatsoever is laid upon him.”
“At this moment, we all feel like family coming together to celebrate the life of Wellington Mara.”
“And Rebekah said to Isaac, I am weary of my life because of the daughters of Heth: if Jacob take a wife of the daughters of Heth, such as these which are of the daughters of the land, what good shall my life do me?”
“And the sons of Kohath; Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel: and the years of the life of Kohath were an hundred thirty and three years.”
“And it came to pass, when they had brought them forth abroad, that he said, Escape for thy life; look not behind thee, neither stay thou in all the plain; escape to the mountain, lest thou be consumed.”
“This is a movie about life and art, and art and life combining is magic for me,”
“Moreover ye shall take no satisfaction for the life of a murderer, which is guilty of death: but he shall be surely put to death.”
“Only be sure that thou eat not the blood: for the blood is the life; and thou mayest not eat the life with the flesh.”
“When love takes you home and says you belong here/The loneliness ends and a new life begins/When love takes you in.”
“Then spake Elisha unto the woman, whose son he had restored to life, saying, Arise, and go thou and thine household, and sojourn wheresoever thou canst sojourn: for the LORD hath called for a famine; and it shall also come upon the land seven years.”
“And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.”
“I told Elizabeth that during such a difficult time for all of us, it's good to get such wonderful, life-affirming news.”
“They are our inspiration ? to stay healthy, keep active, have a good outlook on life and just enjoy everything instead of sitting around waiting to die.”
“[I have] no sympathy whatsoever. He not only kills the victim, but he inflicts life-long pain in the hearts of the victims -- the moms and brothers.”
“There are so many times in life-and I've had them-when I was really afraid. I was kind of a closed-in, self-involved person who was just trying to stay in that safe place and that nest where I had good friends and people who are just like me.”
“And David said unto Saul, Who am I? and what is my life, or my father's family in Israel, that I should be son in law to the king? / But it came to pass at the time when Merab Saul's daughter should have been given to David, that she was given unto Adriel the Meholathite to wife.”
“the potentiality of human life.”
“For Peter, jazz was more than just a form of music, it was a way of looking at life.”
“Investors were looking to President Bush to throw them a life-raft in a sea of accounting fraud and abuse. Instead, the president threw them a pair of cement shoes,”
“And these are the years of the life of Ishmael, an hundred and thirty and seven years: and he gave up the ghost and died; and was gathered unto his people.”
“the most important of my life.”
“I played second base all my life. The only time I backhanded balls was on dives.”
“And he shall be unto thee a restorer of thy life, and a nourisher of thine old age: for thy daughter in law, which loveth thee, which is better to thee than seven sons, hath born him.”
“Labour not for the meat which perisheth, but for that meat which endureth unto everlasting life, which the Son of man shall give unto you: for him hath God the Father sealed.”
“The cost could be under $200 a year for Scott's additional life insurance coverage, assuming he's in good health.”
“Americans like anything that makes life easier, saves time and is new.”
“And if thy hand offend thee, cut it off: it is better for thee to enter into life maimed, than having two hands to go into hell, into the fire that never shall be quenched: / Where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched.”
“You've gotta find a way to get out of your own way, so you can progress in life.”
“In Anaheim, you were fighting for your life every single night,”
“I found out that I can change my life. There is a possibility for that and it's an easy possibility. It's not as hard as it looks.”
“Kinetics in its short life has been building a reputation for being early in certain markets. If you're in a market that hasn't been discovered yet, there's real potential.”
“Dan in Real Life”
“This town is hard to play in. You can have no life here. You leave the stadium, you can't go out with family and friends without being subject to the town wanting a part of you. We understand it, but I don't think [the fans] do. That takes a toll on you.”
“For I will cause Elam to be dismayed before their enemies, and before them that seek their life: and I will bring evil upon them, even my fierce anger, saith the LORD; and I will send the sword after them, till I have consumed them: / And I will set my throne in Elam, and will destroy from thence the king and the princes, saith the LORD.”
“Therefore thus saith the LORD of the men of Anathoth, that seek thy life, saying, Prophesy not in the name of the LORD, that thou die not by our hand: / Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts, Behold, I will punish them: the young men shall die by the sword; their sons and their daughters shall die by famine: / And there shall be no remnant of them: for I will bring evil upon the men of Anathoth, even the year of their visitation.”
“They have cut off my life in the dungeon, and cast a stone upon me.”
“It is our belief that it is important for the people in the Palestinian territories ... to have a good life in safety and security with economic well-being.”
“And unto this people thou shalt say, Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I set before you the way of life, and the way of death.”
“My manner of life from my youth, which was at the first among mine own nation at Jerusalem, know all the Jews; / Which knew me from the beginning, if they would testify, that after the most straitest sect of our religion I lived a Pharisee.”
“This is not just one organization. It's a network of people from all walks of life. To meet people with this much heart is nice.”
“The states are not free, under the guise of protecting maternal health or potential life, to intimidate women into continuing pregnancies.”
“Therefore I hated life; because the work that is wrought under the sun is grievous unto me: for all is vanity and vexation of spirit.”
“Very few people ... have ever worked for him more than once. Because life is too short to really deal with that all that much.”
“Spaniards are known for their diversity and joyful outlook on life, the romantic language, foot-tapping music and acres of sprawling vineyards. They enjoy life in so many different ways ? the running of the bulls (Pamplona) and bullfighting (mostly in southern Spain). This has also a lot to do with the way they express themselves.”
“As the life of the contract goes on, some of the savings go to the state and some of the savings go toward paying for the work. It's a long-term deal.”
“It is a project that gives all of us hope. Our kids that come from all walks of life. When they come to us we have to take them where they need to go.”
“I was lucky, because of Student Council, my classes, sports and social life, there were different people I had friendships with.”
“My son, forget not my law; but let thine heart keep my commandments: / For length of days, and long life, and peace, shall they add to thee.”
“Black Consciousness is an attitude of the mind and a way of life, the most positive call to emanate from the black world for a long time.”
“He set the DuPont Co. on the track to be a major player in life sciences. He came back from Europe in the late 1970s with the tremendous conviction that life sciences was the next major wave that DuPont could ride.”
“The first step therefore is to make the black man come to himself; to pump back life into his empty shell; to infuse him with pride and dignity, to remind him of his complicity in the crime of allowing himself to be misused and therefore letting evil reign supreme in the country of his birth.”
“As a blocker, coach Hueber even congratulated me, ... That's a big deal, a big step in life. I was pretty happy about that.”
“I think, as a student, it's very easy to get lost in academia and the rigor of school life in general. But it's important to remember that we're within something much bigger and to take time out to enjoy nature.”
“It's sort of taken on a life of its own, We realized we had to do more than we'd been doing in the past. It also became evident that she's a very special person to a lot of people.”
“I am not the first man who wanted to make changes in his life at 60 and I won't be the last. It is just that others can do it with anonymity.”
“For I will surely deliver thee, and thou shalt not fall by the sword, but thy life shall be for a prey unto thee: because thou hast put thy trust in me, saith the LORD.”
“I don't answer questions about my private life, ... Hollywood Homicide.”
“He's brave and he just wants to have a normal life and it seems that he's very motivated to do well in his racing.”
“They also that seek after my life lay snares for me: and they that seek my hurt speak mischievous things, and imagine deceits all the day long.”
“It doesn't pay, but it creates the ultimate gratification in life: self-esteem enhancement in exchange for loss of material gain.”
“Somehow we just have to hold it together. Sometimes when you have adversity it brings along special moments in life. Hopefully this can be one of them.”
“It will be a cross-sports forum to look at whether a girl under 18 can handle tour life, ... We want our players to be out here for anything from 10 to 25 years. We don't want them burning white hot for a year or two and then flaming out.”
“The failure to find DNA in the Martian rock is assumed to argue against Martian life. But this logic is coherent only if Martian life must use the same type of DNA as Earth life uses.”
“If you really want to find a place to get life started, it's Mars, and if you want to get a place to get life to flourish, it's Earth.”
“The opportunities for enjoyment in your life are limitless. If you feel you are not experiencing enough joy, you have only yourself to blame.”
“I think all of us were very pleased that he did have a good long life, and that he did not die on the roadside, considering how much time he spent migrating.”
“But flesh with the life thereof, which is the blood thereof, shall ye not eat.”
“Patrol, it can be like just routine and then all of a sudden it can escalate to a life or death situation. The more African-Americans that come on the job and Latinos that come on the job, they'll be exposed to these life or death situations.”
“He's one of those colorful, delightful characters you meet a half dozen times in life. He's especially good with children, capturing their imaginations with stories, and that's just in the planetarium. Get him outside with the stars and he captures children and adults. We just hope he sticks with it.”
“She obviously had spent a tremendous amount of her early life feeling very, very alone. She had no tribe. She didn't fit in any place. Her own family thought she was nuts ... because of what she wanted to do with her life.”
“Weld County Road 13 is a part of everyday life in the Carbon Valley, no matter where you live. You use Road 13, and so do your customers.”
“The Stock Market Game is important. It gives students a real-life connection to economics instead of being in a textbook all the time.”
“When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory.”
“And this is the promise that he hath promised us, even eternal life.”
“Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life, whereunto thou art also called, and hast professed a good profession before many witnesses.”
“He lived a very full 32 years, ... A life, even with its tragic end, many would trade for, even in its second act.”
“A lot of people from all walks of life are leaving. A lot.”
“It's important to be involved with the life of young preteens and to set firm limits for them, while fostering independence, which is challenging,”
“It's about a healthy, long enjoyable life, full of good healthy and family.”
“There have been few things in my life which have had a more genial effect on my mind than the possession of a piece of land”
“It's a disappointment, we lost our historic structure, but in life we've overcome more than this.”
“Intimate relationships cannot substitute for a life plan. But to have any meaning or viability at all, a life plan must include intimate relationships.”
“It was some of the most heartfelt thanks I ever felt in my life.”
“It's been 321/2 years; that's a long time. It's time to start relaxing and enjoying life.”
“You appreciate life so much more when you think for a moment that it might be gone. I guess that is one of those benefits I get in life.”
“And he that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life eternal: that both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together (John 4:36).”
“Peter said unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now? I will lay down my life for thy sake.”
“It's surreal right now. This is a phenomenal time of my life. I didn't think we would win. I just thought we would get in the top five.”
“Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me hath everlasting life.”
“The life is more than meat, and the body is more than raiment.”
“Therefore doth my Father love me, because I lay down my life, that I might take it again.”
“We have done everything we can to support him. But we cannot live his life for him.”
“Students should attend this event to learn about Greek life. Greek life is about more than parties and T-shirts. This is a great chance to meet new people and find out about recruitment in the fall.”
“He has scored goals all of his life and in his career at the top level, and we expect him to do exactly the same.”
“And Paul went down, and fell on him, and embracing him said, Trouble not yourselves; for his life is in him.”
“Racing with Russell Coutts has been the greatest sailing experience of my life. He is so cool and relaxed.”
“Personally, I would rather see him die, but if he's in jail for the rest of his life, not having a life, I can deal with that.”
“If God Is in Control, Why Is My Life Such a Mess?”
“Obviously there was concern. You fear for the guy's life.”
“We are unable to have a licensed medical professional come forward to inject the medication intravenously, causing the life to end.”
“It's like anything in life: If you have a passion, and a commitment to something, you do it very well. You don't have to be in a big city to do it well. This is something Canton has obviously a passion for, and a commitment to. ... If I ever get in trouble, or needed to live somewhere in the world because of a situation, I would come here. I think they'd take me in, and I'd be all right here.”
“I think more than anything, his game-day career was just the coasting part of his life. It was just picking up the harvest. All the apples were already on the tree.”
“We were not able to find a licensed professional that was willing to inject medication intravenously, ending the life of a human being.”
“It's just a shock. He was an amazing guy, a great guy. He and his wife loved life, and embraced all the good things in life.”
“Thou hast made known to me the ways of life; thou shalt make me full of joy with thy countenance.”
“I don't know if I've ever been around anybody that's had a more positive impact on my life. He'll be one of my best friends in life.”
“Clapton is 60 and happily married and he feels very good about his life, and feels ready to look back in an honest way, warts and all,”
“You can do a life audit at any age or stage of life. Don't waste time on things that aren't necessary or good for you. Life is short. Do the bits you have to do and use the rest of your life to have a wonderful time.”
“Some of these cases are really sad. There are people who have literally lost their life savings.”
“When we're young we have a very clear vision of how life is supposed to be, and it all seems very neatly packaged.”
“Life is the most exciting opportunity we have. But we have one shot. You graduate from college once, and that's it. You're going out of that nest. And you have to find that courage that's deep, deep, deep in there. Every step of the way.”
“It was just awful. It was the bottom of my life. Thank God I didn't do any drugs or drink at the time, because if I did, I would have been a mess.”
“It's pretty clear that no one is only oppressed in their life. This framework empowers everyone in the classroom. It helps everyone see that these issues are about them. We are all part of the problem as well as the solution, and acknowledging that creates a sense of commonality.”
“He (Howard) had the game of his life tonight. He really stepped up when we needed him to. Brad had only eight points, but he's just as glad to pass the ball off or draw the double team and allow someone else to shoot.”
“My life is a series of things that just happen.”
“They had enough. They wanted to enjoy their life.”
“Clapton is 60 and happily married and he feels very good about his life, and feels ready to look back in an honest way, warts and all. He's ready to write really candidly about his peaks and valleys and about how he has gone to hell and back.”
“It breaks your heart. They were hardworking and enthusiastic about life.”
“At no point are we not going to value the sanctity of life. We would resuscitate him.”
“This is both the happiest and saddest day of my life, ... I'm sad today because you can see what's left of our beautiful building.”
“This is both the happiest and the saddest day of my life, ... I have yet to be called by Bradford O'Keefe (Funeral Home) for anybody in our congregation.”
“I've never been to a hockey game in my life. But I have to admit this is pretty cool.”
“Whatever your dream is, know that there are going to be hard days in your life. You have to be prepared to fight.”
“Our purpose is to improve the quality of life for our residents.”
“These things are fun. We're restoring something as good as dead and bringing it back to life.”
“It's not just the basketball. It's about learning things in life.”
“You can never expect a movie to have a life that lasts this long, really.”
“The happiest years of my mother's life were spent in Washington, D.C. It was where she met my father, where John was born and where I spent my earliest years.”
“This is the most ludicrous thing I've heard in my life. They didn't get arrested. This happened outside of team property and it was an incident between two men who apologized for their actions. It's obnoxious.”
“It's a bad idea. I wouldn't do it, but it's there to extend the life of the contract.”
“Take advantage of a lot of shopping, a lot of city life, museums, sports activities. There are cities all across Canada in addition to more rural areas that provide opportunities for more active ... kinds of travel.”
“She's not me. She has no children. She's younger, 15 years younger or so, ... It's a totally different life.”
“We consider (them) a very important part of the bird life in Manatee County because of the rookery there.”
“I am extremely disappointed in this year. I hated it; it made my life miserable.”
“As scandal is the second breath of life my name is down for an early copy.”
“The No. 1 rule is to keep yourself safe, ... Nothing is more precious than your life and the lives of your loved ones.”
“Your life will be very different, ... You need to work your way back, and the one thing I can do is push you in that direction. Society is based on honesty and you have paid and will continue to pay for many years, a price for your lack of honesty.”
“I would give anything to be able to put it to bed. It takes your life over but I'm only looking forward to the end of the season if we can pull it off because it would be a fantastic escape.”
“Competition is a fact of life. CareerBuilder.com has been an aggressive competitor for a few years. They may have taken some market share lately but there has been no massive gain that changes my outlook for Monster,”
“The Lord has been very fortunate to me in my life. And I would really like to help her if I could.”
“All my life I had wanted to go into films so when the actual situation arose I decided yes I would.”
“Remember I did my part with the life that I had, and though it was short that's not all bad. Each person must live as he believes, and I hope Old Glory still waves in the breeze,”
“The time we enjoy wasting is usually a good indicator of our real values… The best things in life feel like we feel when we waste our time!”
“It brings that element of life that other archaeological remains can't.”
“Politics, for most Americans, is not an everyday-life issue. It is not something that affects you personally. That is why these demonstrations are so interesting, because what it shows is that immigration is not an academic issue; it is a genuine issue on the Hispanic immigrant side. You are talking about your friends, relatives, neighbors.”
“I have a lot of influence in the lyrics. I tend to write about real life experiences. I write about suicide, actual experiences and things I went through. I try to get something that's broad enough so other people can relate to.”
“Your mind has become expert in destroying you, because your life consists of simple things.”
“[Boyce] put the entire team on her back. She really played the game of her life.”
“If you're 60, you have a life expectancy of 25 years, so you need to invest for a long time,”
“Remembering whatever object one leaves the body at the end of life, one attains that object, O Arjuna, because of the constant thought of that object (one remembers that object at the end of life and achieves it).”
“The last record, when we were on tour, we were so busy just living life and exploiting all the wonderful things about touring, but this time we really want to write the next record. We want the next record to just come out as soon as it can. ... Well, maybe not as soon as it can.”
“My business grew out of the lifestyle change of society. Life is busy - life has gotten off-the-chart busy. Our mothers had a different kind of life because life just moved at a different pace. Families just don?t live like they use to.”
“Our demographic is solidly in the executive class. When people have to be so focused in their work life, this is such a relief for them.”
“One issue is, what are they going to cost and the other is, what is their quality of life going to be.”
“The game of baseball has been my whole life. It's given me everything I have. I didn't think this was better for the game, the growth of the game, I wouldn't be playing. I felt that I owe this to the game. I've made the right decision. I'm very proud to be playing for the USA team. I plan to enjoy it.”
“Everything has been accomplished in this very life by those whose mind is set in equality.”
“I've been shot twice in my life - both times over women.”
“What was happening, you had pastors who had been gearing up for all of their life to go plant a church somewhere . . . and now, all of the sudden, they're realizing there's no land out there.”
“I've never seen anything like this in my life. The smell was putrid. And when the wind blew, you couldn't escape it.”
“What's behind the shoplifting or the offensive touching is some challenge in that child's life, and you're not going to get to that in a facility. It's in the home and community where we need to do the work.”
“We could not do this without them. We've been able to protect life and property, and that's what it's all about.”
“Kirby was in the process of completely changing his life.”
“Oh, wow! In your life, have you ever seen anything like that?”
“It was nothing life threatening but it was enough to put him out of the Breeders' Cup. We are all desperately disappointed because we felt he had a great chance of taking the race in America by storm.”
“It hurt, but at the same time I knew there was more to life than crying and pouting about an injury. I've got to move on.”
“As a mama and a grandma, I appreciate, understand and absolutely believe in the sanctity of life. But I recognize that there are those tough situations where heartbreaking decisions have to be made.”
“O human beauty, what a dream art thou, that we should cast our life and hopes away on thee!”
“The principles we live by, in business and in social life, are the most important part of happiness.”
“He's very frustrated because Rosie is the most important thing in his life.”
“He's been doing a lot more travelling and seems to have a new lease of life. It's clear that he is much happier in himself since meeting the priest. He's gone from someone who rarely invited friends to dine at his home, to doing a lot more lavish entertaining.”
“This trial was not about putting a monetary value on Randy Moon's life. It was about closure for the family. They wanted a jury to decide if their son died because of the carelessness of the driver - and the jury made its decision.”
“Our thoughts and prayers are with Sybil, his devoted partner in love and life, and the rest of the Stockdale family.”
“I can't really say one way or another. Like I said, I just want to move on with my life. So if it's a conditional sentence, that actually might work better for me because there are more restrictions placed that way.”
“I take a whole life story and compress it into three minutes.”
“How would you like 15 hours of battery life on a notebook rather than three or four? What if you didn't have to go through that stupid boot-up sequence? Anytime a solution for storage can be US$50 or US$60 or less, the mechanical guys are out and the solid-state guys are in.”
“Finding Sylvia changed my life. She was open to what I had been doing as a child and also wanted to see how I could make those dances accessible to broader audiences. She never wanted me to water them down, only to learn more about other styles to see if they would enhance my work. I felt so liberated, especially because at the time she was the only director courageous enough to have both black and white dancers in her company. The spirit of my family and ancestors, along with Sylvia, inform everything I do.”
“an engaging, witty and a larger-than-life character.”
“Whenever I perform, I try to share my childhood experiences with nature. They had a tremendous effect on my life, and it has become very important to me to reconnect with my roots and introduce that aspect of my past experiences into my dances.”
“He systematically tried to destroy my life.”
“Don't forget until too late that the business of life is not business but living.”
“He just lived in constant fear for his life.”
“What you saw was a team that was fighting for their life in terms of the playoff situation. We didn't match their intensity on defense. We weren't stopping anybody on the other end. They were penetrating and getting easy shots.”
“It's not been a pleasant life.”
“We want you to see what you can do with it and decide if life is better our way.”
“We are witnessing today the realities of life in the Middle East, ... And the United States has taken a bold and responsible action against aggression and one that Israel, of course, fully supports.”
“So in the summer of 1968, a young golfer from Texas experienced something that would forever change his life. Not only did I fall in love with formal tournament competition, but I was enraptured with so many other facets of the game; the different courses, the people,the history and traditions.”
“It was pure and simply a lack of discipline in my life.”
“I basically changed every aspect of my life, so he couldn't find me anymore. I moved, I got a new phone number, I got a new job, I changed my social insurance numbers and I went to a different school.”
“irrelevant. It's like pumping air into the lungs of a dead man. He needs life; he doesn't need air.”
“He taught the right thing to do from the Bible and he taught us what to do in life,”
“We're allowed to have had a private life before politics in which we make mistakes and do things we should not.”
“I'm not an absentee landowner. I live in an apartment here myself and put my life savings into renovating this building. So I wasn't going to put up with something like that.”
“Our client is a bit confused, although the translator had already told her that it was a life sentence. She asked us once again what the sentence was.”
“Ready-to-wear is what I've wanted to do since the beginning. ... I'm not a girl who spends my life in a ballgown,”
“Have you made up your mind? I decided that I would regret it for the rest of my life if I did not stand up the way my family stood up.”
“Just as Lieutenant Kerry did not hesitate to risk his life to protect the men who served with him in Vietnam, President Kerry will not hesitate one moment to use our military might to keep America safe and secure.”
“He had to have been a lonely guy. He gave up his whole life for his career, ... When he was on the road all of the time, he didn't have any family or friends around, so that, for him, became vodka.”
“I never apologized for anything in my life. The only thing I'm sorry about is putting a curse on Roger Ebert's colon. If a fat pig like Roger Ebert doesn't like my movie, then I'm sorry for him.”
“Hansie, apparently, genuinely feared for his own life and the lives of his family and wanted some professional security,”
“It's trading on momentum at the moment, and momentum has a life of its own and you don't know where it's going to end.”
“I don't even hardly remember that old life.”
“It's bittersweet. This horrific loss of life coupled with this incredible triumph at the end.”
“They are the light of her life.”
“I'm also here to ask you to do more for us in making the life of the Afghan people better, more stable, more peaceful,”
“We just signed a commitment for peaceful settlement, ... We aim to end violence and to begin a new life.”
“That was certainly one of the shining moments in his life.”
“Life is really great -- never take it for granted,”
“It was the greatest experience and the biggest opportunity of my life. It changed everything.”
“If you live in New York City, you will never be bored for a second in your life.”
“I lost my time and my life, and I almost lost my mind, too. It's not fair. They put me in jail without reason.”
“In the last few weeks, many of Dick's students have spoken about how he gave life lessons mixed in with his golf instruction. That is what The First Tee is all about.”
“I knew India not at all. I mean, I had never been before in my life.”
“But I've been doing it most of my adult life, and I like the idea of a one woman show, because it's something I can do when I want to, and not to it when I don't want to do it.”
“Wherein the graver had a strife / With Nature to out-do the life.”
“Some expected these bees to be a major threat to agriculture and life in the Southwest. Others expected an initial surge of activity and then the problem would somehow go away. The truth in New Mexico is somewhere in between.”
“I will not fake my way through life”
“Sometimes, I feel like, 'I'm just happy to be here, life is great, this is so much fun, and no matter what happens, it's a great year,' ... Then a minute later, I'm like, 'C'mon, you've got to focus, you've got to try to win this golf tournament, you're here, you have a chance.' ”
“Life is good, ... I've been able to see the other side of life a little more, but I'm really eager to get back and I'm really eager to be traveling and doing my thing that I'm used to doing.”
“It is always fresh, always new, always there for the still, innocent mind that has experienced life without needing to hold on to what has gone before.”
“What she has done with her boys and what she is doing to establish a new life in Phoenix is just unbelievable.”
“You never know what life is going to throw at you and each and every day I just expect the sun to come up, that's all, these days.”
“If you attack everything else in life with the same conviction you did your deployment, you'll have it made in life.”
“I thought his kickoff return really gave us a lot of life.”
“In sci-fi convention, life-forms that hadn't developed space travel were mere prehistory - horse-shoe crabs of the cosmic scene - and something of the humiliation of being stuck on a provincial planet in a galactic backwater has stayed with me ever since.”
“Today, America is confronting another disaster that has caused destruction and loss of life, ... This time the devastation resulted not from the malice of evil men, but from the fury of water and wind.”
“The reason I don't watch the news is because I don't like violence. My life has been touched by violence. When you watch the news, all you hear is reports of violence, ... So that's why, you know, I don't expose myself to that because it's heart-wrenching and terrible.”
“It would be nice if everything always came up roses in life and you were the Cinderella story all the time, but sometimes you're on the other side of the coin. It's our fate tonight to be in that role.”
“My life is in shambles. It is crazy.”
“My life is in shambles. It is crazy. It couldn't get any crazier. I'm just trying to stay sane.”
“Jurors are realizing the death penalty doesn't accomplish anything because the public is protected by a life sentence.”
“San Francisco is my home. That's the love of my life right there. Thinking that there could be a possibility, just hypothetically, to go somewhere else and DH or something like that, I really don't want to think about that at this time right now.”
“I never even heard of him or met him in my life. But when I got downstairs, he said, 'I've been waiting for you.' He walked up to me and I took his picture. I pointed at him and told him that he had to leave. But then he came up to my nose and shoved me, so I shoved him back.”
“She was a woman attempting to make some sense of, and get some satisfaction from, a life that seemed to have no more logic than a roulette wheel.”
“I guess there are some things in life where you may never hear an explanation. It's like the guy who hides his secret for Coca-Cola. He just won't share it.”
“Water is the elixir of life, water contain medicines!”
“We are reminded how short life really is, and how we are just passing through. So, all the people you haven't told you love lately, tell them, and live your days like you mean it.”
“In My Life really offers people a chance to laugh and to cry…and it's better than Cats .”
“There are chapters in every life which are seldom read and certainly not aloud.”
“You know, Ashley doesn't have a whole lot going on in her life, so she'd probably been romanticizing Madeleine for weeks, when she found out she was coming. So when she shows up and exceeds Ashley's expectations in beauty, sophistication and intelligence, she can do no wrong.”
“It's hard when all your life you're used to a big pocket and all of a sudden, it's half the size. With the new regulations, you obviously have to concentrate on getting those pucks into your pocket. But the glove is now smaller and lighter and it means you can make some saves that you never could before. I try to freeze a lot of pucks on to my body.”
“THE span of life allotted to man is very short; the World in which he lives is very wide; time extends far behind and far beyond.”
“It's probably the worst game of my career. I have never felt worse in my entire life, just letting these guys down when they least expected it, or least needed it.”
“I have a passion for sports. It's been part of my life in all ways,”
“Life is too short to be really bitter about anything for so long. Sometimes, you have to turn the page. After all, he found a great career in Houston, and he made the Hall of Fame. He should get on with his life.”
“I don't remember shooting like this ever in my life.”
“Candles change shape as they melt. If left unattended, the results can be life-threatening. When you leave the room, blow the candle out. And don't use candles as night lights.”
“Diving has taught me a lot about life. My sport is all about perseverance and hard work. Sometimes you fail and sometimes you have to overcome obstacles and disappointments and you learn you have to stay calm. It seems like those are the same things you need in your daily life.”
“Meeting the Lord, Nanak has found peace and bliss; his life is redeemed, and prosperity dawns for him.”
“I didn't have much of a social life in high school and was a total nerd. But it was worth it to get here.”
“If you want to understand your partner, you have to listen to their life stories, where they came from, their life experiences. You can't be selfish. You've got to realize the other person has needs just as important and as valuable as mine.”
“We should acquire power and strength so that we could vanquish our enemies and enjoy a long life full of happiness and prosperity and face death without fear.”
“These are the stuff of life. There are all kinds of external things that go on that stresses a marriage. ... The most important thing to understand is that relationships go through stages. Couples need to understand that.”
“It had a different feel. We had a good time, and I think Mike had the time of his life.”
“If anything, it wakes young people up to a sense of mortality and how your life can end at a moment's notice.”
“Take hold of this (charm) that subjects to immortality (life), may thy life unto old age not be cut off! I bring to thee anew breath and life, not to mist and darkness, do”
“It's a new game and I think that's given him more life. He has more room to move, he can be more aggressive. All the rules help offensive players and he's an offensive player, no question. He's got new life and he feels good. And we have to do the same thing. We've got guys who are playing well and we have to let them go to work.”
“Every part of this is part of Barb's life. This is who she is.”
“The end to the measure and meaning of my life.”
“enhancing the life of our city by donating time, wisdom and experience.”
“You can see that they've all been affected very deeply by their brother's life.”
“Our goal was to provide the most effective, reliable, easy to use, life-saving device possible for those who are using or visiting these facilities.”
“Tweens are at the place in life where they are beginning to assert their independence from mom and dad. Tweens choose their clothing based on personality types-- skater, sporty, preppy, surfer. It's who they want the world to see them as.”
“Litigation is a real-life thing dealing with real issues and real problems. Sometimes lawyers get emotionally wrapped up in those sorts of things and get frustrated.”
“All of these pieces are reminders to celebrate life. Many are works that reflect oral traditions.”
“There was a perception that life here was-I won't say gray, that's hard for me-but beige.”
“My dentist said to me the other day, I've enough problems in my life, so why should I see your films?”
“Anglicans typically have a reluctance to talk about money, to think that money is part of Christian life. The view is that if we're able to balance the budget then we've achieved our objective. It's a question of trying to change attitudes. Stewardship is a way of life, each of us has a need to donate our time, talent, and treasure and we should not be frightened.”
“I want a life after football. I want to be around. I know (gastric bypass surgery) is a risk, but I'll be all right. My wife is a nurse and she'll take care of me. I just know that I can't be like this forever.”
“We still have to make sound business decisions, But if this area doesn't come back to life, it'll be because of that mentality.”
“It seems like she grew up speaking Yiddish. It's really part of her life, like if she did not do this it would be weird.”
“Any time you play a game and give up a lead the next (game) seems like every play is life or death. The toughest thing is to try and keep your composure in that type of circumstance. We knew we really needed it. We didn't want to put too much pressure on it but this was a huge game for us.”
“Anytime you give up a lead in a game, the next one seems like every play is life or death.”
“Lace has been brought back to life. It's not your grandmother's lace.”
“I've been around a long time, and life still has a whole lot of surprises for me.”
“Killed by a man with a switch blade knife, for 43 dollars my friend lost his life.”
“The result is a memorial that expresses both the incalculable loss of life and its regeneration,”
“It's really sort of morbid, but she said her mother wanted to see me all her life. And when she died, she made just one request: that a picture of me be put into her casket. So somewhere in England, I'm in a casket.”
“That one Merle Haggard sings, ... Where he goes, 'What am I gonna do for the rest of my life?' I started thinking about that. What am I gonna do?”
“traditional affirmations of life and rebirth.”
“The Marshall County Relay For Life Unit thanks all who participate in any way to help make the Relay For Life a success. We were second in the nation last year per capita. We all can be proud of that accomplishment, plus what the funds will do for research. Research has come a long way in the past 10 years helping to reduce the total deaths and increase the cures.”
“We're developing 25 patient case studies around medical technologies that have improved life and also have demonstrable savings associated with them.”
“He had challenges in his life anyway and didn't need any additional ones.”
“This is the first time in my life I haven't really gauged (his chances of making the team). I don't know how many pitchers they're going to carry; I don't know who's a lock to make the team.”
“His attitude to his golf is the same as his attitude to life, ... He wants to be just as good as he is absolutely capable of being.”
“What we see in the game situation is very similar to the situations we see in real life every day.”
“It is the brightest day that has ever come in my life, ... I'll cherish this day as long as I live and play.”
“It was more than a sporting event. It was a way of life against another way of life.”
“It's all about Scottish civilian and military life in Colonial Georgia.”
“I keep stressing that last year put everything in perspective. I felt like football was my whole life. When it was taken away from me, I felt the Lord was teaching me a lesson to not put all my eggs in one basket. ... That's why I am enjoying playing.”
“He made the South Seas a great part of his life. Clearly this story comes out of the books he read and the things he learned about the seas during his time out there. He was also crazy about Asian women.”
“Lots of business opportunities come out of tragedy. It's the capitalist way of life. I think the a market for airport-friendly merchandise is a good thing.”
“People want a quick fix but that's not how it works. It's a whole way of looking at life, a whole way of living, taking care of yourself.”
“My life is spent in one long effort to escape from the commonplaces of existence. These little problems help me to do so.”
“When an individual fear or apathy passes by the unfortunate, life is of no account.”
“Such threats are intolerable. In my entire life I have never surrendered to threats and I have no intention of starting now.”
“The moment one accosts a stranger or is accosted by him is above all in this life the moment of drama... Whoever we meet watches us intently at the quick, strange moment of meeting, to see whether we are disposed to be friendly.”
“Wrong life cannot be lived rightly.”
“It's very common in the first year of life, even in the first three or four years of life. It's more serious in the first year of life because small infants can get dehydrated very fast.”
“The Reagan memorabilia runs the gamut of his life, everything from an original bumper sticker from the 1980 election to magazine covers and T-shirts. It just shows that Reagan had many admirers.”
“The impact of space activities is nothing less than the galvanizing of hope and imagination for human life continuum into a future of infinite possibility.”
“The United States regrets this loss of life and deplores the violation of Georgia's sovereignty,”
“A safe, viable and effective commercial air travel system is important to America's economy and to our way of life.”
“This is the first time ever in my life that I've scored six touchdowns. And I didn't realize it until afterward.”
“It's untouchable. For life.”
“You could say I lived the life, I wrote the book, and then it was made into a TV series starring Sarah Jessica Parker. (The character) would have been me about four or five years ago.”
“What is going to happen if everything fails? Life goes on. What do you think, I'm worried about that? I'm only thinking of one thing: victory for the people of California. I've done my trip to glorify myself, to do all my things, and to shine. I'm doing this because it gives me a chance to give something back.”
“These hormones are important for patients' activity and their mood, their energy and responses to life stress in general,”
“Between now and 35 could be the absolute best years of his life.”
“Sex, ... Golf excites me. My life. My wife. All the things that I do. Every day, I'm endeavoring on something different, something new. It's fun. It's challenging.”
“I don't want them going to hell while I'm up in heaven having fun. Life is a battle. You have to bring others to safety through Jesus Christ.”
“That's what's great about life, ... You don't have to keep doing things you did in your 30s. Besides it's not really a good look being in a club when you're 46 years old. The people in the clubs could be your children.”
“There is no justification for such violence and loss of life. This is a terrible tragedy, and our condolences go to all the families of those who died and to the injured.”
“Coretta Scott King will be missed. Her work and her life was not in vain because of the sacrifices she made and because of the rights we have today. I've seen a lot of improvement in America.”
“You're more emotional. I like the way you play that stuff. My life has naturally moved on. I'm taking everything in my stride.”
“I feel like some of the problems I had in my life, I felt like she gave me some ideas for where I can succeed in areas I've been failing.”
“[Ms. Bushnell, whose work has always been informed by the goings-on in her personal life, said that in recent years she and her friends were having conversations about more than men, Manolos and martinis.] When we get together we're not really talking about sex and relationships, ... We're talking about work and career.”
“I'm just happy he showed some life this time. The biggest thing is that he proved he could still run hard from the start and finish strong.”
“Everyone wants the opportunity to have a good life and make better money. In India, it's hard to get jobs and make good money. Everybody dreams of America - you can have a good life here, freedom here.”
“In India, they teach us if you live together and work together, you will be successful in your life. When we came here, we watched our cousins and friends with restaurants work together. They make their own homes, buy their own cars, they succeed. We want to make the same life like them.”
“For example, as a white woman, I'm shaped by my class, my gender, my race, my sex. My life is shaped by privilege as a white person, but at the same time, I may have experienced discrimination based on my gender or my religion.”
“We are always striving to enhance the overall experience of spectators at the Pacific Life Open. The addition of the Tennis! Link service will give fans an extra viewing dimension on the Stadium court while keeping them informed of results as they happen.”
“When I saw the snow for the first time in my life, I felt very excited. The weather condition was much better than I thought, and I became accustomed to it soon.”
“Shaq in foul trouble makes life easy for everybody.”
“What we want to do next is move into another phase of our life and enjoy the building of that phase in a different way. You can see the period of company building for me, her certainly, has been long and challenging, interesting and rewarding.”
“I give them a plan of action and encourage them to try for the relationship in life they really want,”
“Building on Microsoft's agile technology, this group of leading industry partners helps bring our vision for health plans to life. The solutions framework that Microsoft and our partners utilize enables health plans to make more-informed decisions by offering access to real-time information and better collaboration across systems and organizations. Our solutions help drive better business decision-making and better health outcomes.”
“The potential for technology to drive transformation in the healthcare arena is being brought to life by work conducted by industry innovators like St. Luke's. Working with partners like Siemens, Microsoft is leading a vision for a more connected healthcare system that empowers individuals and organizations to effect measurable improvements in the quality of patient care.”
“We managed to flag down the life boat.”
“You give up a lot. I gave up my job, my family, the life I had. But I gained so much, too.”
“Employees no longer come to companies for life. They join for experience with a career plan already in mind; they are taking control themselves.”
“It's pretty depressing when your whole life comes down to three boxes,”
“(Collecting) plays a very important part of my life, ... But when I go to work, it's work that I do. Being that it involves 'Star Wars' makes it special. The things that are important to me are friendships and relationships. 'Star Wars' is high up on the list, but it's not at the top of the list.”
“There are moments in life that are beyond language,”
“You have to be smart about how you use e-mail. Otherwise you let it ruin your life.”
“I've never played in a consolation game in my life. This is really going to test the character of our team. As hard as it is right now to think about it, by game time I think we'll be ready. People can see past the color of a medal and see what we did to earn it.”
“That's just a real-life condition I have to deal with. It has nothing to do with me doing the movie. I cannot dilute or intensify the movie because of the political environment. I cannot wait until the world is perfect to make my movie. If I don't do it, somebody else will -- and I will be very jealous. So I didn't really give it too much thought.”
“He found his calling later in life. He was nearly 30 years old.”
“Even senior women want a more integrated life. They don't want to kill themselves the way Bonnie is talking about. I admire Bonnie for being able to do it, but she's not a real model for most women.”
“The focus is on practical life and work. Survival skills.”
“It was on his last trip to Dubuque that Kerry declared that 'life begins at conception' despite having voted at least six times against banning partial-birth abortion. Kerry had previously said there is 'no such thing as a partial birth,' but told a Dubuque churchgoer that he opposes partial-birth abortion.”
“Societies and economies can be destroyed by bombs. Societies can also be destroyed by locking every aspect of life like provision of food and water through an economic war.”
“The most decisive actions of life are most often unconsidered actions.”
“That's an amazing thing. I've been through a lot of things in my life. A lot of things have taken me away from the lines of a tennis court. But it's never taken me away from here. Twenty years here feels better than 19, so thank you.”
“I had never played a real-life character. All the characters that I'd played before were fictitious. So I'd spent all this time creating the affectations and amassing all of the attributes and characteristics and mannerisms, and then Jackie came to the set the first day of filming. I kicked everyone else out of my trailer, and we started to talk. He told me, in his own words, just for him and I, what the whole story was about for him and what that trial meant to him. After that meeting, all of the work that had gone into building the mannerisms and attributes seemed secondary. The most important element was to understand and believe in his cause.”
“Most of us... are simply just trying to get through the day. And wait for those times in their life that are markers, that put things into relief. That's why we like movies and books so much.”
“Loss of hope rather than loss of life is what decides the issues of war. But helplessness induces hopelessness.”
“Well, obviously it would change my life for a couple years,”
“Fatherhood brings so much perspective to your life. You realize that what we do is just hit a ball over a net and where that sits in the scheme of things, as important as it is to us.”
“I never heard a crowd like that in my life, ... That was some of the best energy I ever felt ... You get so inspired, the hair on your body, the back of your neck, is standing on end.”
“I had spent my life studying these guys, looking up to them, watching their work. Now I was able to have my work watched over by the same guy who was watching them? So that was an easy choice.”
“It was an interest in being involved the community. There are many things that are beneficial in civilian life. It was the opportunity to work with many different people.”
“Emotionally I have never felt so complex in my life. I don't know whether to laugh or cry or scream. I don't know what to do. It's got me paralyzed a little bit. But I do know this: The games keep coming. You can't give up. We're not going to give up.”
“The best thing to do is find one person in your life and try to love them unconditionally. If you've accomplished that, you've accomplished a lot.”
“He wants to live a normal life. He just hasn't had the chance and he deserves it.”
“When you're racing, you hang on for dear life. Everything is shaking, and on the turns your head is literally hanging outside of the car.”
“I grew up doing musicals. I've done so many musicals in my life, I kind of got them out of my system. But, I certainly would be open to them. Rocky Horror Show is a big favorite of mine.”
“This guy's life is a movie waiting to happen.”
“To be invited into these powerful situations is life-changing. I don't know what I expected to happen on this show, but the lessons we are learning as we help these people have just surpassed anything I could have imagined.”
“Hopefully we'll catch them after Donald Carrie. It's like life after Robert Kent (for Jackson State). They're struggling, and teams go through that. We'll try to take advantage of that and go after their quarterbacks. We'll try to keep them frustrated.”
“It's really a presentation of life, as it was at that moment, in a really artistic way. Everything was double-sourced. George was determined to do this as a journalist.”
“If one life is saved because one was lost, then… its bittersweet.”
“It'll probably take two minutes to tell my entire life story. You've been misled down the wrong path.”
“She had a lot of people in her life. She was a real tomato, a very luscious looking woman.”
“For me, football is life. I have played at every level from schoolboy, and experienced the passion and join this great game brings.”
“That was the greatest exhibition of basketball I've ever seen in my life. They could have beaten anybody -- I mean anybody.”
“PHONOGRAPH, n. An irritating toy that restores life to dead noises.”
“My reward is that I can touch their life.”
“Justin is the girl's guru and surf instructor; an ex-pro who's lost his way in life,”
“Every witness knew their life depends on pleasing the state.”
“A nobleman is Nature's provision for wealthy American minds ambitious to incur social distinction and suffer high life.”
“Chance and necessity do not explain the origins of life.”
“AIM, n. The task we set our wishes to.
"Cheer up! Have you no aim in life?" She tenderly inquired.
"An aim? Well, no, I haven't, wife; The fact is --I have fired." --G.J.”
“DULLARD, n. A member of the reigning dynasty in letters and life. The Dullards came in with Adam, and being both numerous and sturdy have overrun the habitable world. The secret of their power is their insensibility to blows; tickle them with a bludgeon and they laugh with a platitude. The Dullards came originally from Boeotia, whence they were driven by stress of starvation, their dullness having blighted the crops. For some centuries they infested Philistia, and many of them are called Philistines to this day. In the turbulent times of the Crusades they withdrew thence and gradually overspread all Europe, occupying most of the high places in politics, art, literature, science and theology. Since a detachment of Dullards came over with the Pilgrims in the _Mayflower_ and made a favorable report of the country, their increase by birth, immigration, and conversion has been rapid and steady. According to the most trustworthy statistics the number of adult Dullards in the United States is but little short of thirty millions, including the statisticians. The intellectual centre of the race is somewhere about Peoria, Illinois, but the New England Dullard is the most shockingly moral.”
“With that generation, often there's a lot of documentation on a young person's life because they use their laptop for a number of purposes.”
“All his life he was teaching the truth to the world, ... He was the real foundation for its values. He has gone, but his science and his studies are with us.”
“Early on in MTV's life cycle, the novelty of video wore off. We had to evolve with our audience and develop beyond a radio model.”
“The agencies funded by United Way improve the quality of life for everyone in our community. It feels great to be able to help some of our neighbors, friends and co-workers.”
“Activism is a Way of Life”
“I spent 34 days in this vehicle in my life. As much as a person can love a machine, I really love that bird. Look at this magnificent sight, back where it belongs with the people who take care of her. I want to thank the folks who lent us this orbiter. We took as good as care of it as we possibly could.”
“Stern had the game of his life. I just faced the best hitters in the world and I did pretty good against them.”
“Early on in MTV's life cycle, the novelty of video wore off. We had to evolve with our audience and develop beyond a radio model.”
“It is just nonsense but these things will happen to the boy throughout his life. We have had this with George Best, we had it with Paul Gascoigne and we had it with David Beckham.”
“Early on in MTV's life cycle, the novelty of the video wore off.”
“You've Only Got 3 Seconds: How to Make the Right Impression in Your Business and Social Life.”
“Early on in MTV's life cycle, the novelty of the video wore off.”
“Apparently, fairly recently he did win $500 on a game called Lucky For Life. They are all scratch-off games.”
“Drama is life with the dull parts cut out of it.”
“Get them a life jacket too. You get in those turbulent waters and you get swept under.”
“The push to prosecute companies and make the next settlement bigger than the last has taken on a life of its own.”
“A relatively small investment of time and money now may prevent severe damage and disruption of life and business in the future.”
“The chances are they've got many other problems in their life. If we convince them to resolve the property disputes, at least we can relieve them of one of their concerns.”
“Human life is driven forward by its dim apprehension of notions too general for its existing language.”
“If every day in the life of a school could be the last day but one, there would be little fault to find with it.”
“Time, a maniac scattering dust,/ And Life, a Fury slinging flame.”
“It's been perfect. It's occupied her time and she seems much more satisfied with life and excited about things.”
“Not only did he become a prime suspect ... but he was denied any normalcy in his school life afterwards,”
“Your life was cut short by those who could not hold a candle to you.”
“God blessed us, ... It rained but we're still out here. This is what life is about. I'm glad I could get out here to put some smiles on these kids' faces.”
“Playing football wasn't really my main concern, it would have been life. My main concern was making sure I survived.”
“We did nothing but breathe life into this team, that's all we did.”
“We did nothing but breathe life into that team. That was a CPR job right there.”
“I'd just like for him to suffer for the rest of his life,”
“Every day of my life brings back to that day. I would just like to thank everybody that helped catch him. I've waited 28 years for this day.”
“Young Life is a nondenominational Christian organization that is committed to providing strong, positive influences in the lives of teenagers.”
“She tried to educate herself about issues that would make life better for other people in society that didn't have the privileges and opportunities that she did.”
“Some people just have a passion for nature, a particular attraction to life itself. Many people love the environment, but some people are equipped deep down to be conservationists, so when you love something, you do your best to make sure you don't lose it.”
“What's more important? Life after death or birth control? What is more important? God's forgiving love or premarital sex?”
“Some people just have a passion for nature, a particular attraction to life itself, ... Many people love the environment, but some people are equipped deep down to be conservationists, so when you love something, you do your best to make sure you don't lose it.”
“We had a lot calmer life, I'd say.”
“It was a lifetime experience and we all gained an appreciation for our life here in Andalusia.”
“I've been a negotiator all my life - selling furniture is really helping people make decisions. Now I've got pretty strong respect in both chambers and on both sides of the aisle because the work I've done over the years on the budget, giving and taking, ultimately winning decisions.”
“This has been one of the best times of my life, to meet you and spend time in the town my grandmother told me so much about,”
“We often marry in despair, so that we repent of it all our life after.”
“Reverence for Life Revisited: Albert Schweitzer's Relevance Today.”
“That whole program took on a life of its own.”
“Every day we try to smile, ... Everything's over and God saved my life. We can do something. God gave to us and God taketh from us.”
“Words, once they are printed, have a life of their own.”
“It's only football. There's more to life than that.”
“You work for the same goals in sports and life, and sometimes you don't win. But you can learn that you can go through some deep valleys and return to the mountain top.”
“I was really proud that a lot of kids came out to represent. We're here to live a better life.”
“Properly sealed bottled water doesn't have a (limited) shelf life. There's nothing in it to spoil.”
“Your life and my life flow into each other as wave flows into wave, and unless there is peace and joy and freedom for you, there can be no real peace or joy or freedom for me.”
“He's a good man, he's a decent person, and his reputation has been tarnished, but his life should not be destroyed.”
“He's lying in the hospital, shot twice, fighting for his life. He would give the shirt off his back to help anybody. Our whole family is traumatized.”
“Constant development is the law of life, and a man who always tries to maintain his dogmas in order to appear consistent drives himself into a false position.”
“Religion is more than life. Remember that his own religion is the truest to every man even if it stands low in the scales of philosophical comparison.”
“The end goal of all this is to answer the fundamental question: Are we alone? But how did life form on Earth, and how easy is it for life to form? Those are other questions the discovery of planets can help us answer.”
“[The approach: Main character Earl matter-of-factly provides commentary and a little history on events in his life and his effort to reform.] We use (narration) as he's just telling us a story, ... He could be in a bar somewhere telling the story to somebody. We just happen to be seeing it.”
“No one is really miserable who has not tried to cheapen life”
“Ceremonies are like a peak period of each stage of life. They mark a transition where people are going to move from one stage to another and will understand the roles and responsibilities expected of them at the next stage.”
“For that's what a woman, a mother wants -- to teach her children to take an interest in life. She knows it's safer for them to be interested in other people's happiness than to believe in their own”
“Life and death are God's decisions. If it is made through a court verdict, that equals murder.”
“We had only three weeks to make a totally life-changing decision,”
“What she does in her personal life is her own decision. I respect everything about Sheryl, how she's handled herself on and off the court. To me, she will always be one of the greatest ambassadors for the game of women's basketball.”
“I hope to live all my life for my art, without abandoning my principles one iota.”
“He's been good and it helps to have another guy. Mike has come to life the past two games. He's been really good. All of a sudden, it makes a whole lot of difference when you have a second guy that can put the numbers up. He's hit some timely baskets without a doubt.”
“John Archibald (in the book as well as in real life) is a big, important part of the yard.”
“You could easily find combative moments in Kurt's life, and there are places in the film where things could have been really dramatic,”
“What she does in her personal life is her own decision. I respect everything about Sheryl.”
“It's one of the highlights of my entire adult life and career to be asked to speak at the induction ceremony and articulate my passion for racing.”
“It was teeming 
 with a diversity of life, with mussels, tubeworms, fish and crabs. Struggles 
 for survival were playing out before our eyes. The incredible multitude 
 of crabs in combat with each other for existence is an image I will 
 never forget.”
“I've had three biographies made about my life so people know an awful lot about me.”
“We don't want an opt-out and what we do want is a proper balance between work and family life in Britain and every other member state of the EU,”
“It was the scariest thing I had ever gone through in my life. I never thought I'd live through a Category 5 hurricane.”
“We want some real-life experience of how (customers) move from sector to sector before we really put our foot down.”
“But life did not work quite as he designed it in the next year. He picked the wrong major item, Social Security. And then the war got worse and he had the hurricane. So now it's not only the sand that has run out of the hourglass but also the political capital has run out of the bank.”
“It was really more of a corporate Web site before, and if a customer wanted to get life insurance from us, they needed to know they had to look on the Nationwide Financial Web site instead of the Nationwide Insurance Web site.”
“The production of children, the nurture of those born, and the daily life of men, ,of these matters woman is visibly the cause.”
“Fruitful is the entire life of those, who feel hunger for the Name of the Lord in their minds.”
“It's his honesty, ... I'd trust him with my life. He has so much integrity. He's a credit to racing.”
“Judging awards is a big chunk out of our working life and judges have very little time to spend on each entry.”
“I've found the last couple of years exciting and rewarding but also the most difficult of my life. If you are the product and your life is spent in self-examination, you devour praise and criticism 24 hours a day and you forget the thing that drives the world is outside of you. I don't know any other business so shrouded in Schadenfreude. The knives are always out, it just depends which way they're pointed.”
“Cursed is the life, and cursed is the dwelling, of those who serve another.”
“She meets the Great Giver, the Life of the World.”
“If you could get a device that had enough capacity to be interesting, with good battery life and cool form factor, and sell (it) for $50, this market will explode. It's pretty easy to imagine a flash-based device in a year or two hitting those kinds of price points.”
“I don't think we ever can understand anyone else's life completely, period. But a willingness to truly enter into the possibility of understanding it is amazing in itself. And I got a window, just a peek, into a world that I never had access to, and it was a privilege and it was life-changing, and I just appreciate that.”
“We want to improve the quality of life for a large population.”
“Food is central to Chinese life. But, during the Cultural Revolution, it became even more important. You couldn't discuss politics. Religion, literature, even romantic love were forbidden. Food was about the only way people had left to express themselves.”
“We rely very heavily on oil-based materials for our everyday life,”
“Art is uncompromising and life is full of compromises.”
“I could still go into something else, or I could easily coach the rest of my life. I have no idea, but I'm liking it so far.”
“The basic artistic guideline of the show is to be observational and find the humor in real life, so it's good to be from a real place.”
“What I feel the story is about is Irene?s adaptation to this new life, that she makes these strong choices and then has to live with them, perhaps finding something richer because she questions her new life.”
“Patients find respect and a comfort level here. The majority of people who come here really struggle with just life. Imagine what it's like to be tense all the time worrying about everything constantly.”
“Our guys had a great attitude every day they showed up. That's a lesson in life. Who's kidding who - I think we were 1-18 and something at one point. Who the heck is having fun in that season? But they showed up every day, they put a positive spin on everything, and they worked. And I could say with complete honesty, I don't think there was a game the second half of the season that there wasn't a supreme effort.”
“If we can prevent one accident, save one life, this will pay for itself. It's a wonderful opportunity.”
“We had a chance to do a lot more, but life is tough. You've got to deal with it.”
“Two of the most spectacular moments of my professional life. Nobody could have done it like Marshall did. He just had this magic about him. He was a true superstar.”
“In our rampantly secular world, biography is now the only form of life after death”
“My lovely living Boy,
My hope, my hap, my Love, my life, my joy.”
“From now on, we all need to talk about life, and hand in hand, try to reconstruct the quake-stricken regions.”
“This has been the best year of my life. Seventeen?and?oh, baby.”
“It brings the class to life in a way that few would ever imagine.”
“Those are just some of the ways NASA is related to everyday life.”
“They understand if they want to be successful in life, they've got to be able to handle multi-tasking. I think guys are starting to realize that, and they want to be successful.”
“I've been exercising all my life... I was a long sprinter. The ones that hurt.”
“Senator Edwards has dedicated his life to this issue, of how do we recreate a middle-class for America especially since the service industry is really where the jobs are.”
“The shelf life of the modern hardback writer is somewhere between the milk and the yoghurt”
“I just lead my life as naturally, as normally as I possibly can. But I can't help it if controversy is hounding me day in and day out. I'm quite amazed sometimes by the way they go about it. I grow a beard and it lands up in the editorial in The Times of India.”
“That will save the city hundred of thousands of dollars over the life of the loan, plus the closing costs.”
“It's a spectacular challenge to balance your personal life under these circumstances,”
“Our whole life is turned upside down and now we don't have a house. I don't know how this is going to end. I don't know what we are going to do.”
“This was not a life for him, this was not a life for her.”
“It is one of the most miserable experiences in my life and I am glad it is over.”
“Enough will never be done because you can't give someone back their life, ... That's something that will never be replaced.”
“I don't need to be there. I can hear about it. It's always going to be part of my life, but I've always felt justice would be served.”
“I just worked my entire life ... what do you want me to say? It's probably the lowest point in my life. I worked 24/7 to get to the Olympics and do well. I put myself in position. I was world champion. I won (the World Cup title) in 2004. This was my year. This time around I was a contender, and I had an arsenal to win the thing.”
“I never in my life wanted to live through something like this. There are no words to describe it.”
“I got a gymnastics scholarship to college, fell in love with my true love of my whole life - who I'm married to now - and he was a virgin too. It was very romantic.”
“You can't live life like that, ... It just happened to fall on a day like that.”
“He spun out the young dreams of his life in these mines.”
“But if you believe in Christ and that your main goal with your life is supposed to be to honor Him and do His will, then you don't have as much pressure as someone who bases all their happiness on whether they're a movie star.”
“I feel sorry for the way his life ended, you know being shot. I hope he rests in peace.”
“There has to be level of end-of-life discussion, and information about architectural decisions and migration paths.”
“I've played a lot of games in my life and coached a lot. I never felt so helpless on the sidelines, to watch a team that I thought was playing pretty good defense just continue to give up offensive rebounds.”
“I would've liked to have heard something out of his mouth. Yes, anything. A plea for his life or just his opinion on what went on over the last two years,”
“Each of these individuals have real-life dealings with the defendants in this case. They'll explain what they told Dr. Rosen in detail. On day one, Secretary of State Rice tells him certain info and on day two one of the conspirators tells him the same thing or something less volatile.”
“They say this is a game of inches. Well, those few inches changed my whole life.”
“The shot felt good. They were going down. I've worked on it my whole life. With shooting, some nights are going to be great and some nights are going to be terrible.”
“Our research shows that your name has no effect on your life outcome.”
“It's a life-altering thing. I used to do a lot of stupid things: snow ski, jet ski, snowboard, ride my dirt bike, dune buggy. I grew up doing all that stuff and had never gotten seriously hurt. I took it for granted, and it came back to bite me in the [butt].”
“We've seen him have a lot of life on his ball before, with that tough cutter. He didn't have it today. ... He still battled, but he did not have a lot on the ball.”
“Palm OS is not dead, but it's on life support.”
“Now that I'm here, I've changed because life here is better in all senses.”
“These approvals will now allow those infected with HIV more access to these life-saving drugs within our country.”
“It was the worst pain I'd ever felt in my life. I didn't want to go to school. I dreaded going to the training room every day because I knew what was going to happen. It was a lot of pain, but I wanted to come back.”
“Golda was born in 1898. Her life parallels the life of the Jewish people in the 20th century. The text is beautiful. It gives enough history so that non-Jews can follow it.”
“Keeping the schools in the communities will have an effect on the quality of life in the villages,”
“I have been very interested in labor movement. If I could have wished another life, I would have loved to be a pioneer woman in the beginning of labor movement.”
“Our heart goes out to Dave's family. Dave lived a great life that anyone could be proud of. He was one of best people I have ever known. He had a tremendous impact on our program based on the kind of person he was. He will be missed, but we are honored to have had the opportunity to know him.”
“Dave lived a great life that anyone could be proud of. He will be missed, but we are honored to have had the opportunity to know him.”
“So many of these kids have been let down by life and don't know where to go. Then they come here and they start to see the light at the end of the tunnel.”
“He's a real tough young man who has worked hard for everything he's got in life.”
“DULLARD, n. A member of the reigning dynasty in letters and life. The Dullards came in with Adam, and being both numerous and sturdy have overrun the habitable world. The secret of their power is their insensibility to blows; tickle them with a bludgeon and they laugh with a platitude. The Dullards came originally from Boeotia, whence they were driven by stress of starvation, their dullness having blighted the crops. For some centuries they infested Philistia, and many of them are called Philistines to this day. In the turbulent times of the Crusades they withdrew thence and gradually overspread all Europe, occupying most of the high places in politics, art, literature, science and theology. Since a detachment of Dullards came over with the Pilgrims in the _Mayflower_ and made a favorable report of the country, their increase by birth, immigration, and conversion has been rapid and steady. According to the most trustworthy statistics the number of adult Dullards in the United States is but little short of thirty millions, including the statisticians. The intellectual centre of the race is somewhere about Peoria, Illinois, but the New England Dullard is the most shockingly moral.”
“Mostly we enroll high school dropouts or kids severely lacking in job or life skills. These are the kids for whom No Child Left Behind came too late.”
“The Royal Court has been at the centre of British cultural life for the past 50 years ... I think the fact that it's managed to maintain its position over 50 years is an extraordinary achievement.”
“It's not my life story but stories from my life. And also stories from a lot of women that I grew up around and that I felt were very pivotal in my life and kind of gave me the courage and the strength to keep going. It's kind of going to be a feel-good book for women.”
“All members of the jury whose views are known also indicated that, had life without parole been an alternative available to them, they would have imposed it instead of the death penalty,”
“I haven't read a book in my life,”
“Meditation gives me the energy and the strength to do all the things I do in my life. And my life is very full.”
“We've been carrying on, having fun, enjoying life.”
“They spend their entire adult life filter feeding the zooplankton and phytoplankton from the water. It was estimated that during their peak numbers in Lake Erie, they were filtering the entire lake every day.”
“He's a person that was very passionate and really believed in what he was doing in his work life. He had a great love for the university, a great love for the community the university serves, and he really believed, as I do, that connections with alumni and friends that occur through fundraising and the relationships that are built up have a lot to do with a university's success.”
“It's just people from various walks of life in Cuba and what might happen to them”
“Starting from the third row will make life difficult tomorrow as it will be hard to overtake,”
“That was the biggest stop of our life out there. We were definitely prepared for a sweep. We knew Harris was getting the ball.”
“I was going to marry you/ Have kids with you/ Stay true to you/ Live life with you.”
“Life would be pretty bleak for humans on this planet if we don't have very many species to share the Earth with.”
“I believe that with my background, the assets that I bring to the table through my life experiences are very valuable to the town. I think having someone of my qualifications is important for a council to have whether it's me of someone with a background of mine.”
“I learned my first life lessons about how to treat a wife and family from Johnnie. When he would leave his house on Colonial Court, he would always give his wife (Margaret) a hug and a kiss, and he'd slap both boys (Matt and John) over the head to assure them he loved them.”
“Karma is never more evident than in a kicker's life. I think that shows up more (with kickers) out of any other demographic of society.”
“It's very crucial in a life-saving issue to make sure something as simple as numbers is taken care of, ... If someone's having a heart attack, you're trying to get there in four to six minutes, no more than ten minutes.”
“My client who supposedly aids him or facilitates it gets life, but the guy who actually did it gets 20 years because of a plea?”
“We knew this was such a monumental thing in her life and she was able to stay so positive. We saw that and what she was going through, and thought, if she can do that, then we could step it up and do more.”
“The government would have to give up the ghost on seeking the death penalty, the sentence being life in an institution instead of in jail [with the rest of the prison population] without the possibility of parole, ... That's the only guilty plea that would be acceptable.”
“I think my life will change quite a lot - but maybe it deserves to because I did very well”
“We just had no life to start with. I'm the coach and I'll take the blame for it.”
“If you idolize someone for their accomplishments, and those accomplishments spurn you on to make gains in your own life, then admiring a celebrity can have a positive influence on your ambition, or even your mental health.”
“She's very upset, very emotional. She's lost without him. That was her whole life.”
“The fact that the UNIX business is showing a little bit of life here is encouraging. They've still got a little ways to go, but they actually did a little better than I would have thought.”
“We give these kinds of teams life. That's the story of our season -- a team that has struggled. We'll have good days and bad days, or bad days and OK days. OK days won't get it done.”
“Undoubtedly, life insurance confidence is also being fed by the strong equity markets that we have witnessed in this country over the last three years. This has continued uninterrupted in the first quarter of 2006, and as a result, insurance company's earnings have been boosted.”
“People were still asking me to build old cars, which I've worked on all my life since I was 16. By the time I got through with one I had two more waiting, until I was turning down more work than I was taking in.”
“Seriously, I didn't realize that the professional life of a director can be short. There are a lot of directors I turned down. I wouldn't do it again.”
“Those are the only two similarities. The show is about my life. How the hell can they tell me what's going on in my life?”
“Life insurance is an important method of estate transfer to at least consider because death benefits can pass to your heirs essentially free of taxes.”
“Life - how curious is that habit that makes us think it is not here, but elsewhere.”
“I will always support legislation which respects and values life.”
“It was one of the greatest days of my whole life, ... It ranks right up there with the birth of my children and the day I was sworn in as governor.”
“As a dedicated and proud father of three, I am a strong advocate of life. I value life whether born or unborn.”
“We keep hoping. It would be the happiest day of my life to write that check.”
“It's so weird, ... Last summer, it seemed I'd never get to the Olympics. Life is going by faster now that I'm not in the gym much. I don't have to train at that same intensity.”
“It's life or death for a lot of people in this country. It's a global issue.”
“He came into camp in the best condition of his life. He really did ... He's a little bit unlucky.”
“His mom and dad did a heck of a job raising him. He's humble. His life is in balance. There's a lot of things going his way besides hockey, that's for sure. If he stopped playing hockey tomorrow, he'd still be a millionaire within five years. Whatever he touches, it turns to gold.”
“In the fullness of time, the tsunami was just another bad day in the life of the coral reef. It will recover.”
“He just enjoyed his life and was so happy in mood. He just wanted to be happy and work in America.”
“They left me nothing but a black hole. These kids ruined my life. You can't imagine how I feel. It's devastating.”
“When It's My Life came out, there was another push. It just touched everybody. Kids from 7 to 70 related to it.”
“I felt really small and insignificant being surrounded by that scale of destruction and the void of life that was all around me.”
“Some people, that's all their life is ? is baseball ... how many hits they get, how many runs they drive in, how many plays they make, ... They're working for a plaque. I'm not working for a plaque. I'm working to put food on my table.”
“Our personal belief is that God creates life from conception, and no one but God can take it away.”
“While the gay life is often glorified in 'pride' festivals and through the media, we offer a distinctly different message -- one of hope and healing for those who don't share that sense of pride. I and thousands of others know firsthand that there is a way out of unwanted homosexuality.”
“We fully expect Steven Avery to spend the rest of his life in prison.”
“I've made it all my life, had some tough times and some good times, but I don't know how to make these (ends) meet, ... I thought in the spring I had one of the better crops around here and then overnight it took a different change.”
“She had gained weight, eating, feeling good about herself, looking forward to resuming her life and now all this progress has been destroyed.”
“From a fire department standpoint our number 1 priority is life safety.”
“This is perfect. I played solid all week. It's been the best week of my life.”
“It's a memorial service, a wake. It's to honor their life but it's for everyone.”
“Focus on their death as a committed life championed by the values they stood for: honesty, integrity and hard work,”
“Sometimes a move like this, or a series of moves, can give a team new life.”
“My private life has been the subject of much jabbering. Perhaps this slightly scandalous side of me people find entertaining!”
“If your life depends on it, you'll find an alternative, even if it is more money.”
“His public persona dictates that he's the life of the party -- which he is -- and that he's all about fun -- which he is.”
“They'll risk life and limb of their human cargo. Each person represents a dollar sign.”
“We talk about life all the time, try to do everything the best you can. I am so proud of this team tonight. I'm just so very, very proud.”
“My mom and my dad wanted my brother and I to have a better life, you know, better education, better jobs. It was probably harder, much, much harder, for my parents. When you're a kid, you can learn a language much more easily; I learned English in less than a year.”
“My whole life has revolved around acting so far!”
“His middle-ranking colleagues they come and support us, but high-ranking (employees) disappeared from our life,”
“social and political life of Russia.”
“Our goal is zero loss of life. The best way to avoid loss of life is to get people out. The evacuation went well. Certainly there were glitches in terms of traffic management . . . but we consider it a success.”
“As the twentieth century ends, commerce and culture are coming closer together. The distinction between life and art has been eroded by fifty years of enhanced communications, ever-improving reproduction technologies and increasing wealth.”
“He used to sell drugs, but he got out of that. He was straightening up his life. He was never a violent man. He just likes fast money.”
“My family and I are still considering our travel plans, with the additional cost of my current life insurance now figured into the travel budget. I also realize that, on any future insurance application, and on my work-related background checks, I may have to explain why I was turned down for life insurance in 2006.”
“Sure, you get angry. But no angrier than you get all your life about a system that uses race, class and politics to keep us polarized.”
“I look back on my life a good day's work, it was done and I am satisfied with it.”
“I felt really cornered, ... This is a huge step in my life and it's emotional.”
“I have written my life in small sketches, a little today, a little yesterday . . . I look back on my life a good day's work, it was done and I feel satisfied with it. I made the best out of what life offered.”
“Sure, you get angry, ... But no angrier than you get all your life about a system that uses race, class, and politics to keep us polarized.”
“That's life, though. That's life.”
“We just have to hope that he is consistent enough because it is very different, ... Basically for his whole life, he has caught the ball, ran with it and then punted it with the pumpkin that they use ? and they're tremendous.”
“The life of an MP3 player is not a matter of durability but a matter of lifestyle. Consumers want the latest technology.”
“Robbie has had disappointment in his life before and he's always bounced back.”
“the science of life.”
“Now he is going to be a serious C-level celebrity, ... It's going to change his life, if not for the next 15 minutes, then for the next year.”
“Moore will get the shock of his life on September 23,”
“Sure, you get angry, ... But no angrier than you get all your life about a system that uses race, class and politics to keep us polarized.”
“The truth is, I'm proud of the life I've lived so far, and although I've made my share of mistakes, I have no regrets.”
“It was the toughest decision I ever made in my life. But in the end, I kept coming back to Ohio State.”
“I'm a big believer that life still goes on.”
“His height is something he's lived with all his life and it's his main feature but he's got great feet,”
“For summer I have no idea where to go with an evening gown. In my life there are no occasions to go, so it looks like the kimonos and the little party dresses underneath, like you had a party the night before.”
“Claire is actually younger in life than the role calls for, but her emotional knowledge continued to astound me. There was never any uneasiness between us in any of the delicate scenes we had to do.”
“That's the way life is. If you don't measure it, it is easier for it to be forgotten,”
“I never took a music lesson in my life, it just came naturally.”
“It's a big part of her lifestyle - her sexuality and seeking that sexual life with Tommy, ... I look forward to it. It's stuff I've never done before. I've never played a sexpot before. It's kind of fun to engage in that kind of story line. Literally, all Denis and I do during those sex scenes is laugh our a- off.”
“Some things have gone on in my private life, it's been difficult, and I'm just happy to be here again.”
“It can't be any better. Life has been such a blessing.”
“Life is a bit easier not worrying about the future of where the family is going to be or what is happening in the future.”
“You have to have a very well-balanced life to be able to perform very well,”
“I just think he'll be an extremely strong candidate against a Republican nominee in eastern Iowa here, ... Pro-life candidates in this area appeal to a lot of Democrats here.”
“The management of the home's physical plant is one major issue for improving the quality of life for an aging population.”
“It feels funny letting go of some of that stuff—it's my life. But if it belongs anywhere, it's this University. This is where everything happened.”
“It's a big part of her lifestyle -- her sexuality and seeking that sexual life with Tommy, ... I look forward to it. It's stuff I've never done before. I've never played a sexpot before. It's kind of fun to engage in that kind of story line. Literally, all Denis and I do during those sex scenes is laugh our [butts] off.”
“I just gritted my teeth and went for it and had to hold on for dear life at the end.”
“We have confidence in each other. We know everyone steps up, and we've all won in our life, maybe not here in UNH but in high school and other levels. We're all winners.”
“It seemed natural to put the cars and the music together. It's taken a life of its own.”
“I will never forget my time at Nebraska. Those were some of the best times of my life.”
“He said he had lived a full life and he would make the most of whatever he had to face. He was a special person and had a way of making people smile. He made the most of a horrible situation -- and will be missed greatly.”
“The principles that we use, which help athletes to succeed, are essentially skills for life that help people perform better at work, become better leaders and work more efficiently with one another.”
“He's the kind of person who will get a second lease of life. He may be out now, but he's the kind of person who has a definite knack of getting people to back him.”
“Baron was very passionate about surfing, but he was also a typical guy who enjoyed life and accomplished most of what he wanted to do.”
“People who have physical activity do tend to have longer life. And they report higher quality of life.”
“Right now, we're working on a script for my life story and two kids coming from Haiti to America. One turns out to be a musician, one is a gangster. That's all I can say.”
“If I've learned one thing in life, it's you can never go back.”
“Broken marriages, conflicts of loyalty, the problems of everyday life fall away as one faces up to [Jeff] Thomson.”
“He's amazing, and his family background is amazing. What he has overcome already in life is really heart-wrenching. I know this: This team loves him. He's the type of guy who really adds to the chemistry of a football team. People can't get enough of him and what he can do with his magic.”
“My grandfather was a voodoo priest. A lot of my life dealt with spirituality. I can close my eyes and remember where I come from.”
“They are in charge now. For some it's very exhilarating to start their adult life on their own terms.”
“It's a good life in this sort of Madame Bovary way. It's beautiful and perfect and seems to be just what you want but ends up becoming a gilded cage.”
“I guess you could say that meeting Jane was the luckiest day of my life.”
“I have been kind of doing that move for the last 10 years of my life and decided to stick with what works.”
“It's like a giant, worldwide mysterious jigsaw puzzle that will come to life for all the world to solve.”
“We considered torture, but since it was a life term we felt hazing was a more appropriate charge,”
“None of these 12 victims was wearing a life jacket at the time of the incident. Life jackets remain the most important safety equipment that Ohio?s recreational boaters have on board.”
“We're college-prep focused, and education means a lot to us. Wesley's life is about more than sports. One play and sports can be gone, but education goes on.”
“What you capture is the slow, everyday decomposition of life because of working conditions.”
“I've been around a long time, ... and I've never seen anything like this in my life.”
“I know there's a life after football, ... With my neck surgery, there was the realization that football doesn't last forever.”
“We'd definitely like to see snow, but life goes on. You've got to deal with what you've got.”
“Anytime an athlete can play at the next level it's an absolute life-altering encounter, it really is. We've put in a lot of time and effort with Megan.”
“You want to try and experience all parts of life and nothing is guaranteed. You might as well try them when you have the opportunity.”
“I will become the leader in all aspects of this dog's life. I will control his resources [food and water] and his entertainment [toys and recreation].”
“Life goes at such a terrific pace-a few years full of youth and grace and then you fall flat on your face before world history.”
“This World Series isn't about crowning a champion. I think the kids will remember this as a life experience, ... Not everyone that plays baseball gets the chance to play in a big-league ballpark, but these kids get a feel for what it's like to play in Wrigley Field, what it's like to hit a ball off the Green Monster, how it feels to play at Camden Yards.”
“The boys know we need to win this one to make life easier. Jake's okay to bat but I don't think we'll see him bowl for a while yet.”
“Is there life before death?”
“This has been a most difficult decision I have ever had to make in my entire life. But after consultation with my doctor and my family, I have decided not to rejoin the football team. I will focus on regaining my health and my academic pursuit of getting an MBA.”
“It was a horrible night. I put $10,000 to $12,000 into my car. It's my life. I just can't stand to have something like this taken away from me.”
“By our hard work, we pay the price for the life we wish to have here. And remember the ones who give up. They are the losers. That is the reason we must never give up.”
“It's been a nice, normal quiet week; it's been life at Newcastle United. But we've got to put it behind us. The important thing is to try and get a result.”
“I have the goal in my life to be a sports champion, ... It was very important to win because, right now, that's the fight to become number one in the IBF and WBO. It is my goal and now I'm in the position to fight for the championship.”
“I look forward to it. I'm a racer, I've raced my whole life. When I lay down at night, there's nothing I want more than to know it was on you. I welcome the pressure. That's what I want to do.”
“This tour was without doubt the most difficult one of my life.”
“It was great as a life exper-ience rather than a football one,”
“It'll show my day-to-day life, Nick, my friends, my family, as well as the journey behind making this record.”
“I don't think it will enhance the quality of life in York. I don't think the people in York need another day to get inebriated.”
“As far as day-to-day life, he's a very happy baby. He's not miserable. He loves music. Knowing that he's not in any pain and that he can express his feelings is wonderful. It relieves us a lot. All we want is for him to enjoy his life.”
“I cannot speak for more than an hour exclusively about poetry. At that point, life itself takes over again.”
“[The City Hall investigation] did stabilize her from her free fall, ... She has found new life because her themes resonate in North Dallas.”
“Usually I try not to read that stuff. For someone who writes openly about her life, I have the thinnest skin. I don't like feeling that people don't like me. It makes me very upset.”
“The governor has been involved in sports most of his life, and I fully expect he will sign it.”
“Our mission is to provide every last opportunity for a person to turn his or her life around. We don't give up easily. These men exemplify the true spirit of Christmas - looking inside yourself and finding hope.”
“Steve Largent has been too slow and too small his whole life and this is just one more occasion.”
“He had no quality of life since he'd been diagnosed.”
“Spectrum is the life blood of wireless, and by putting it to its highest and best use we are creating enormous economic opportunity because we are allowing the American consumer to access the most innovative and modern wireless services.”
“Playing for Chuck Knox was one of the greatest experiences of my life,”
“My brother's life was taken in a few minutes and [Clark's life] was able to go on for 22 years.”
“It's critical these victims have somewhere to turn when they need life-saving help. We are proud to do our part in making sure these shelters are there when someone needs them.”
“Poorly prepared for the dignity of life, I barely keep up with the pace of the action imposed. Reality demands.”
“South Dakota enjoys a 
 wonderful quality of life and a dedicated workforce, and it is easy to see 
 why John Morrell would choose to expand here. I am pleased that this 
 expansion not only will result in new jobs for Sioux Falls, but also because 
 it demonstrates John Morrell's long-term commitment to the region. This 
 expansion also reflects the talent and dedication of the folks who already 
 work at John Morrell.”
“We're inserting a fictional character into real life.”
“It's very sad. It was a life-long dream to see it.”
“They'd be skidding around, hanging onto a rope for dear life. That was our first winter.”
“The enthusiasm is incredible. Foreigner really is my legacy. It's the most successful thing I've done in my life. It's sort of my baby. I thought maybe I'd give it a shot, get a really great band together and see how it goes.”
“New worlds to gain; my life is to survive, and be alive…for you,”
“We find ourselves having an incredible appetite for life. We're very lucky that way. We're well suited to each other.”
“Biggest day of my life, probably.”
“I went through hell, became suicidal and almost took my life over it,”
“I mean, we're going to be there for a week, but that's their life.”
“The word career is a divisive word. It's a word that divides the normal life from business or professional life.”
“When that character is right there, part of your life cleaning you or doing whatever they're doing, it becomes so much more real for all of us.”
“In the past, vaccination programs were cost-saving and life-saving. However, newer vaccines are now focused on reducing morbidity, rather than mortality, and we need to carefully weigh the risks and benefits of vaccination. By balancing the costs of a vaccination program and the potential impact of alternative vaccine policies on reducing disease morbidity and improving quality of life, we can optimize decision making regarding vaccine use in the US.”
“We worked so hard to bring it back to life, and it has been destroyed in 72 hours flat.”
“Something like that changes the quality of life here. I would rather have a trailer over there than that because it would be less intrusive.”
“I kind of have to get back to my life, go back to making some money. It kind of gave me a hard hit. ... I'm human.”
“The shot of my life, so far.”
“We all had jobs. We had a life.”
“My life is very... complex [Batman]”
“Life is filled with trade-offs, and I worry that it's so easy to slip from descriptions of problems to one-size-fits-all prescription,”
“There are certain pressures and things that change your life to a degree that, in the cost benefit analysis that constantly goes on, sometimes makes you think, 'Maybe I should just leave.'”
“It's kinda changed my life because it's one of my favorite things to do and I just feel like I can go out and do whatever I want.”
“There is a wonderful quality of life that has been preserved here over the last 250 years and I think that's what we should be most proud of today.”
“It's been almost 19 years now that my brother and I had the most important woman in our life taken from us. We didn't have enough time with her. Every day is a struggle to get through without her.”
“It allows us to hear real life examples of how legislation would either help or hinder people,”
“He's been coaching our whole life. When we were little we were mascot cheerleaders when he was coaching. He's been a big influence and he always pushes us, but he doesn't say anything. If we want help, we have to ask.”
“A human life is a schooling for eternity.”
“I was afraid for my life, when you?re in there with criminals. And I?m going to call them that, I?m not afraid. They?re criminals.”
“If we can stand up to Hitler, all Europe may be free and the life of the world may move forward into broad, sunlit uplands.”
“If we played in real life, that's what would happen.”
“Our offense has been almost non-existent. Some way, we've got to find life in the bats.”
“Martin Bashir persuaded me to trust him, that his would be an honest and fair portrayal of my life and told me that he was 'the man that turned Diana's life around.'”
“If only we could do like the old video tapes; able to rewind and fast forward life. I wish we could rewind March 31, 2005 and there would be no need for us to be here. The trial is like rewinding and we are stuck not moving forward. If there is a resolution maybe it will help all who loved these three, and little Alex, who survived, move forward again.”
“I trusted Martin Bashir to come into my life and that of my family because I wanted the truth to be told,”
“The film will examine the fascinating life of man who is a household name, yet no one knows his actual story. It's not a film about euthanasia but instead a look at a passionate man who spent his entire life fighting for rights he believes that every human should have.”
“The longest 30 minutes of my life. To see that signal come back when it was supposed to, that jazzed me.”
“She's not sure if it's him. I told her afterwards, 'You don't need to care about that'. That's life, I have nothing more to say.”
“If there is any lingering doubt, life without parole is the punishment.”
“This is an important decision for the life of Piper. This was an issue raised by two groups. Whatever the final decision will be, we'll respect that.”
“Essential life-saving humanitarian services delivered by the U.N. will continue, and the mission will monitor the situation and carry out a fresh security assessment of the area in the next two to three weeks.”
“It's my guide to run my life and raise my family. I never thought about that before.”
“The secretary general is very concerned about the escalating violence and loss of life in Sri Lanka, including mine attacks on soldiers and police and targeted killings of political activists.”
“Everything happens for a reason, I trust that it will be for the better. Sometimes life works out in ways we can't comprehend, but all we can do is react to what happens to us in the right way.”
“We would never know if his life would have been saved had he been able to take the helicopter flight director to the hospital.”
“There are benefits to maintaining your spirituality throughout your life.”
“It's a brilliant idea. With a few exceptions, most kids (in high school) don't have direction in life and haven't developed a passion yet, except for video games and computers. Fire training is so hands-on and so physical that, for a lot of kids, it's an eye- opener. If they can start developing a passion at 14, 15 or 16 and if it's done right, you can really cause a lifelong love of the fire service.”
“When you're born, you're actually born with the muscle cells you're going to have for the rest of your life. If you use them, and exercise and get those muscles working, you'll help them to grow. But if you don't use them, they're going to decline.”
“I hope by the time I'm 25 I'm financially secure for the rest of my life so I hope to win about 5 million dollars by that time.”
“Sometimes life hits you in the head with a brick. Don't lose faith. You've got to find what you love... So keep looking until you find it. Don't settle.”
“Life will become more miserable for the more than 1 million people displaced because of drought and civil war.”
“He touched many people through the years, ... He spent his life helping people.”
“I'm not ready for that. My kids, my life, everything. I cannot go home.”
“Oh, no, we shouldn't be promoting the use of alcohol, because that will only lead to a life of waste and degradation”
“Politics is a life sentence. It's an obsessive, all-demanding, utterly fascinating, totally committing profession - stimulating, satisfying, stretching.”
“Studies show seat belts will not save every life. But they increase that chance, as well as increase the possibility that injuries will be less severe.”
“It certainly appears so. RPA had its best year in a number of years and we have [real-life CSI show] Suspicious Minds on shortly. Broad-based family entertainment is working.”
“She has been Stalinized out of literary history on the theory that she messed up Eliot's life.”
“This plant has basically reached the end of its life. We're still providing quality treatment, but we're pretty close to capacity.”
“Will had the game of his life.”
“I turned up for the most important date of my life in front of so many people so at the start I was a little nervous,”
“He was the type of person who lived life to the fullest and would do anything for you at the drop of a hat. You could really count on him.”
“People who commit crimes against children serve their time, however those children are scarred by this for life. We want to do everything we can to protect them against that.”
“Marines care for their own. And that is in life and in death. And so they see their duty not complete until they are resting in their homeland with their families.”
“It's just great, ... You're fortunate in your life to be in a good enough position to help someone.”
“Making maximum money is not interesting. Living the best life on the least money - now there's an interesting challenge.”
“We've always been looking, everywhere we can, to find money for the life sciences.”
“We're glad this animal has a second chance at life in the wild. Unfortunately, many animals that strand aren't so lucky.”
“I can tell you I am very happy because this was one of my goals in life. I have been here so long, and I wanted to one day do this.”
“Some employees might want health insurance. Some might want life insurance. Some might want disability insurance. Some might just want the cash. This is a good tool to maximize employee satisfaction,”
“One thing that really came to life is the history these kids are leaving out in the open.”
“The 2-0 start gives us tons of confidence. Confidence is huge, in anything you do in life.”
“It's a big day in my life today. For every racer and every competitor the best thing is to stay on top. I had a special moment on the podium when no one was speaking to me. I really enjoyed that moment.”
“Overall, I was a little impatient. I didn't have a lot of life on my fastball. I got behind on a lot of counts. I left the ball up a little, too.”
“When it comes to all-around athletes, I don't think anyone compares to Jim Thorpe. Sports was his entire life.”
“There are no more second chances. From now on it's life or death.”
“Cesar knew how to work, and he knew how to get things done. Throughout his life he showed how important it is to turn negative experiences into positives.”
“Evangelism is not an option for the Christian life.”
“He's up to having a life like a normal human being.”
“I pretty much enjoy life on a daily basis because there may not be a tomorrow.”
“Acapulco now has high-end shopping malls and excellent night life.”
“The most fun I had in my life with my pants on was in Natchez.”
“That you're in favor of life. That you do not believe in abortion. That you look for alternative measures and means other than having an abortion.”
“[4.] 10 Degrees and Getting Colder ... Summer Side of Life.”
“I don't think I ever cracked up as much in my life as I did during my stepfather's funeral service and burial. All we could do to prevent crying was to laugh throughout it. Laughter is very powerful. It's something that can't be underestimated.”
“No matter what your religion, you should try to become a government program, for then you will have everlasting life”
“Avanti's bar medium is a fantastic way to bring our brand values to life, gain peer group endorsement and drive consumers in store. This reinforces our traditional viral campaign strategy by creating a buzz in the bar environment and gaining more immediate talkability.”
“In all likelihood, he's going to spend the rest of his life in prison.”
“Marijuana saved my life. I have no doubts about it and you don't need to show me any data.”
“When you've experienced a disaster, you'll likely be overwhelmed with everything you'll have to deal with in rebuilding your life. As much as possible, deal with the most important items immediately.”
“I haven't seen destruction like this my entire life. The nature of this devastation is completely overwhelming. It's a tremendous task to bring back neighborhoods. They need to be brought back one building at a time.”
“It's Napoleon and his lovers. It's about him and all of the women around him during his life -- Marie Antoinette, Pauline, Josephine.”
“So the clothes are a good ad for living another life.”
“How many times in your life do you have a chance to represent your country?”
“I've never had a make-or-break year in my life. I'm going to coach football, it's what I do. This program, to me, everything is pointing in the right direction. So we're going to work as hard as we can and be as smart as we can.”
“Every time they seemed to have any life, our defense came up with a big hit, a big turnover. And it wasn't them making mistakes. It was our defense causing the turnovers.”
“We saw how important music is in the community and how vital it is to the life of the church.”
“The life of our generation is now set. We do not have the power to influence the flow of events, and no right to offer advice to the next generation.”
“Cell phones are the lifeline for teenagers. They just can't imagine life without them, ... It's not just a communication device for teens; it's an entertainment device.”
“Before, growth was reliant on the life support of external demand. Japan is moving back to a more normal economy, where domestic demand is the biggest driver.”
“I feared for my life; it was a life-or-death situation. In some ways, I've never really gotten it out of my mind.”
“There is a problem with (work) encroaching on home life, if the individual does not manage it and set the boundaries,”
“It's violence. It's no value on life. Our younger generations are not thinking that death is everlasting . They're not coming back.”
“It would probably kill me to have such a thing appear. The most interesting part of my life is of no concern to the public.”
“We hypothesized that preterm birth would be associated with high blood pressure later in life, but we did not expect the risk to be as high as it was,”
“It's about carrying the principles you learn into your life, 24-7.”
“I had to start living a regular life, and now I'm a sales rep for United Rentals. But I got bored staying away from fighting and so I'm coming to knock his (butt) out.”
“A life that hasn't a definite plan is likely to become driftwood”
“To me, the moment that the state has a compelling interest in is precisely when human life is most vulnerable -- the very young, the very old, and all of us in between who is some ways are handicapped, disabled, are vulnerable to exploitation, ... Those of us who are able-bodied, who are able to articulate our own interests, who have access to all the resource in society, we really don't need the state's help. We'll do just fine. It's the others that concern me. And for the state to turn that argument on its head and say that as you approach your death, the state has less and less of an interest in your life, is to me completely bizarre.”
“One should look at consolidating the right to life instead of imposing the death penalty which has a very poor recognized effect in deterring crimes,”
“For me, my faith is a really big part of my life, and it is important for me to walk it out every day, ... Part of our faith as Christians is the command that we let people see who we are as Christians. I'm doing my part to show who I am and that I'm not ashamed of it.”
“She came here to change her life, to get her daughter back -- that was what was real and pure in her world. She would do everything she had to do to accommodate that wish.”
“Prior to Marilyn Monroe, a star's life was hidden from the public. But now, instead of a glossy ideal, we see celebrity's ugly messes, including their drug and alcohol abuse, which, for many who admire these people, translates into a very dangerous message.”
“If he had had care in time his life could have been saved with medical expertise.”
“Humor is key in getting through this journey. I needed to see the lighter side of life.”
“We had eight on the side that he had withdrawn from his life in the Mafia. Four felt he was still in that lifestyle. I felt he had withdrawn from all that.”
“This is the price someone convicted of a sex offense must pay for the rest of their life. But that certainly does not permit law enforcement to treat them with any disrespect.”
“If you are living apart from a life of crime, your risk is negligible.”
“Americans know today that Roe v. Wade has pushed that envelope. We live daily with wholesale abuse of human life that devalues America and Americans. This loss of value and perspective has weakened us and made us less free.”
“You learn in life that, you give everything that you possibly can. And when that's not enough, you learn to accept that.”
“A man whose life has been dishonourable is not entitled to escape disgrace in death.”
“We're talking about making human cellular life, not a human life,”
“I see the working of the Lord in my life. We have so much compared to other people. Some people say that I have earned it. But God has given me certain things in my life.”
“Wellness is in great demand by current and future students. We could increase quality of campus life as well as increase our profile as a recruiting tool for students.”
“It was wonderful. I played the best poker of my life and I got as lucky as I've ever gotten in my life. It's a dream come true.”
“Kids don't play every second like it's their life. Those kinds of people are probably the ones who think that in the last seconds we're going to come back, or wait until we do this or do that, but they don't understand how quickly it escapes.”
“I'll go back to my regular life I think. I don't know there might be other things on the horizon.”
“I don't think I've ever had a more surreal experience in my life. It's just post-apocalyptic.”
“I've been taking it slow, enjoying every day, and everything good in my life.”
“Time is life itself, and life resides in the human heart.”
“I think it's a tremendous help. You've got people of all walks of life who are represented by labor unions. I think that's tremendous when you have that kind of support.”
“I've curled all my life and loved the game and Russ Howard is an icon in the game of curling. As players, we all grew up following curlers in their careers and Russ was someone I watched closely.”
“The recipes are good, but the stories are also good, ... It includes all ranges of Clinton's life.”
“At this time in my life, I'm not so interested in playing the same TV movie again about toxic waste or anorexic children. I'm much more interested in going outside of the box,”
“My assumption is that I would not continue on the board, or as chairman. I have a full business life ahead of me,”
“I can scarcely wait till tomorrow
when a new life begins for me,
as it does each day,
as it does each way.”
“My recommendation is to develop healthy eating habits for life. The low-carbohydrate diet is not a diet for life.”
“One of the worst days of my life was after Andrew Bess was killed in a car accident. His brother, Michael, came out to the mailbox and told me. I walked into the house to (his parents) Bill and Becky, and hugged them. That's all you can do.”
“Life is with such all beer and skittles; / They are not difficult to please / About their victuals.”
“Read not Milton, for he is dry; nor Shakespeare, for he wrote of common life.”
“Microbes control bio-chemical cycles in the world vital for life, and most of it is done by marine microbes. But we have no clue how many there are, how many types, how they are spread.”
“Then suddenly, I was a little older and life started to happen. I went to work and the band thing fell to the side. I lived my life, got married, had kids and now I'm back out playing with the boys and it still feels the same only we sound a lot better.”
“It's not a pleasant thing, to see a young person's life snuffed out. Driving the van, I see a lot of people - a lot of people that I know sometimes - and you realize how many different families this affects.”
“I had a hard time dealing with what I wanted to do with my life.”
“Swim of my life? I have to admit it was up there. It went really well. When we were in school, I was out of it, thinking about my race. Before the race you try to visualize as much as you can. Once you actually get in the water, you've already done it your mind, so it's pretty easy.”
“This guy just kind of wanted a change in his life. ... He thought it would be a great place to bring his boys.”
“We have a long history of supporting statewide issues designed to improve the quality of life here in Colorado,”
“I call it a celebration. I mean, that's how I feel. It's been the greatest time in my life. I've been living my dream.”
“A player always wants to stay in soccer, but he is an outcast for the rest of his life.”
“The conscience of the dying belies their life.”
“It so amazes you how much stage fright you get. I've been in front of cameras all my life, but that first tee, standing over that ball that's not even moving, it's scarier than doing a movie.”
“I've been a free thinker all my life. Frankly, I'd agree with 95 per cent of what Peter has put forward, but then his adversaries would probably agree with 90 per cent.”
“A lot of times it's a loss of life. Somebody is trapped in swift water, somebody jumps in to try and save them, and you end up with two fatalities. This was done very professionally with our rescue teams.”
“I was a killer. I'll always live with the fact that I killed in my life.”
“John and I had a special bond in this life.”
“The sport of shooting is my life.”
“But if ever there was a case where someone's life experiences cry out to be a mitigating factor, this one does. The system will spare no expense to house and punish her ... but this same system let her down, time and time again, [as a child]. With all she's been through, it's a wonder she's not a mass murderer.”
“Recent economic data gives us confidence that corporate spending is coming back to life, so I'm hoping sales could be above $5 billion. That would set a strong tone for the rest of the year,”
“Being able to see a doctor or nurse without having to make an appointment makes life so much easier for patients and will have the added advantage of taking pressure of GPs and A&E (Accident and Emergency) departments.”
“We have the cream of the crop in terms of advance life support.”
“If you die homeless, your death goes unnoticed, just like your life. This is a way for us to notice.”
“As a band, we felt that promoting the service is essential — literally a matter of life and death.”
“Justice for me would be admissions and apologies from the people who just tortured me and broke my life, because they could. I think Stephanie got the justice this world has to give her. We can only hope that, if there is something in the next world, that justice will be given to her then. This world doesn't have any justice for either of us.”
“None of the injuries inflicted that were visible were directly life-threatening. There was no shortage of stuff around the household which were available to do a lot more.”
“These are not excuses. An excuse is something that just lets you out of something. Life in prison without parole is not a reward.”
“Irregular contact with doctors means many men fail to receive any preventive care for potentially life-threatening conditions. In addition, when men do seek care, embarrassment can often prevent them from openly discussing health concerns with their physicians.”
“We want to change one kids' life at a time. That's the simplest way of stating our mission.”
“This is indeed an historic moment in the life ? not only in the church of New Orleans but in the whole city, ... The structure which harbors the soul of our city has come back to life. ... Thanks be to God.”
“He was her life. She loved that boy, did everything for him. She never said a word about him being violent.”
“Old age is the verdict of life.”
“It should be of no surprise to anyone that Standard Life has a strict focus to keep its regulator fully informed,”
“The heroes of the past have something important to tell us. The purpose of life is to live a life of purpose. One person really can make a difference. Doing the right thing always matters.”
“This is part of the spiritual life of people, and God sometimes wants to unite the soul very closely to himself. He will allow them to feel abandoned by him. And Jesus also on the cross felt he was abandoned.”
“It's a wonderful life. For myself, I kind of know this is what I was really called to do. It's a call to service, and it's very rewarding.”
“The theory is, you're there to save a life,”
“Life is not getting any less complicated.”
“That's how many people here see their life. More of the world may start coming to see us in Rocinha -- and we welcome all of you. But if you give us a choice, most of us would probably rather be out there.”
“Innocent people are getting killed. These kids, they have not lived their life.”
“Then first stage is, of course, life saving, ... We've made a lot of progress in that respect.”
“To be always intending to live a new life, but never find time to set about it - this is as if a man should put off eating and drinking from one day to another till he be starved and destroyed.”
“It's given new life, and of course great resources, to this fear that's hung around Washington for decades, of [Cuba] exporting revolution,”
“You can say CAFTA went through, but what it revealed is that free trade is on life support, ... It barely squeezed through Congress and doesn't bode well for future deals.”
“The crown of life is neither happiness nor annihilation; it is understanding.”
“The whole initiative [NASA Administrator Mike Griffin] has introduced since he took over breathes new life into the propulsion industry. Before we were kind of in a going-out-of-business mode.”
“Your child is really involved in not only the life of the plant but the ongoing life of a butterfly.”
“The First Amendment has the same role in my life as a citizen and a writer as the sun has in our ecosystem,”
“I've lived here all my life, and in some places we were, I couldn't recognize where I was,”
“Whether there's enough heat to actually get the chemistry [of life] going is pure speculation at this point. But it's certainly intriguing.”
“There's no way they can show she didn't end her own life.”
“My kids are not known, and I think that is very important. So far they have lived a normal life, and will continue to do so. I feel they should have the possibility to live a free life without the burden of fame I have created.”
“I like to share my life, and spend time with someone I love. That has worked 100 per cent with my wife.”
“God give me work, till my life shall end/And life, till my work is done.”
“I can't really imagine life without Formula One,”
“Not to be personally heard adds to our concern about the fairness of the whole process. Where a person's life is at stake, there ought to be some minimum elements of due process.”
“Life returned to normal last night around 8 p.m. As soon as the word was given, they left very, very quickly.”
“Life is now being lived in accordance with women's rules.”
“Turn it in and save a life. We know half the guns on the streets of Toronto are stolen,”
“Even though it's admirable that there is a reduction (in homicides), when it comes to loss of life, 51 is still too high.”
“When I die, my epitaph should read: She Paid the Bills. That's the story of my private life.”
“I've been fortunate all my life. I was born into a Christian family and able to stay out of jail. I've been more blessed than anybody I know in golf.”
“Not being able to save somebody's life and then having a dog you can care for and is always there for you and happy to see you and trusts you with their life.”
“Man, 54 years old, and I've never had a whipping like this in my life.”
“Jayson has turned his life around. He defines the character we were trying to get for our team. When we needed a hit of personality -- when we were too nondescript, a suburban team without urban sizzle -- Jayson jumped in and created a persona for us.”
“He loved what he did, he loved being on Countdown - he just loved life”
“Our approach is understanding where they are in their life. We're like a personal chief financial officer for the client.”
“This is definitely one of the highlights of my life and my career. This football team definitely came out and wanted to show people some things.”
“I know it's very drastic. But I feel like I need more structure in my life, and this will give me a better quality of life. I would not do something like this unless I absolutely thought this was a last resort.”
“Making the decision to quit smoking is the first step on the road to a healthier, tobacco-free life. What better time to start that journey than at the beginning of a new year?”
“I'm relieved it's over and glad to move on with my life.”
“What I was waiting for, as were many Americans, was a clear affirmation that the life-altering decision as to whether or not to have a child must be a woman's decision,”
“This is just a very strong testimony to the life Johnny lead.”
“had to work every single day of his life.”
“The FBI attached more credibility to a lot of this information than other agencies, ... That's just a fact of life. And you'll never get consensus in the intelligence community, I think, on any one thing.”
“This kid has had a tough time his whole life and this only made things worse. I think the conduct of the Juvenile Department of Corrections in this case was absolutely appalling at every step of the process.”
“It is one of the proudest moments of my life to be walking in representing my country.”
“This was a bittersweet day. You work all your life for this, and then it's done.”
“It is not in (the victim's) best interest to have the Appellant in her life, much less, have him in her baby's life.”
“This is one of the greatest days of my life. To be able to stay where my career began is a blessing. I'm so humbled that Milwaukee would even think of me in this manner.”
“My mother, father and birth-mother were pro-life and pro-adoption. Because they were, my father made me a Reagan. I've come to honor my father, not to politicize his name.”
“Humans have always had a complex relationship with technology. Automobiles, for instance, changed the nature of life in America, where we live, how we work, what we can do with our leisure time. But they have also brought us traffic jams and contributed to global warming. The impact of information technology may be equally profound, and these are things we need to think about and study.”
“I'm at that point in my life where I definitely want to get married soon. I've got my dogs as surrogates, but I'm ready for kids.'”
“Some people, like myself, consider life beginning at conception. For me, besides my education, my morals and ethics are the most important assets I bring to my job.”
“When you go for a change of life -- as in a marriage -- there are going to be some jitters. What you have to determine is: Are the jitters legitimate? Or are the jitters because these two people should not be marrying?”
“He was a larger-than-life figure, with a wicked sense of humor, and a great friend.”
“This is the most important ballot of my life. I want to come home. I mean, I want to come home. I mean, every day, I want to come home. This is the first step. I'm so hopeful.”
“We feel the overall market is showing a lot of life across the board.”
“Always look on the bright side of life. (Monty Python)”
“It makes me feel that, at long last, something is going to happen. It's the start of getting my life back.”
“The production is about the life of Christ, it's not a Christmas program. It works because it's not seasonal.”
“It's definitely the worst experience of my life that I ever want to live through,”
“Not getting in jail is one thing I'd like to pursue. A free life in the public would be nice and whatever that entails. I don't know. . . . There's not a lot of interesting things happening at the moment, but because I don't have a smoke, I'm going to roll a joint. That's my life.”
“It's something I've kind of been dreaming of my whole life. It's a relief not to worry about it anymore, and concentrate on hockey.”
“Happiness is being on the beam with life - to feel the pull of life.”
“That's life. All I can do is look to the future with Newcastle and hope to do really well in this black and white shirt.”
“Saturday will be the happiest day of my life. It's a magical date for me. It's the start of the tournament we've been fighting for during the past five years.”
“If there's something he's proudest of, it was that center. That became the driving force in his life.”
“If you're always strict with yourself, life gets miserable. And we're supposed to enjoy life.”
“One of the architects described it as a warehouse for books. It outlived its life span.”
“When it's been a part of your life for five years, it's hard to let go. It's been great . . . I'll always be a Cyclone.”
“I think (the insurgency) has got at least five years of life, because there are men and there are materials.”
“The happiest moment of my life was when I heard my wife holler back at me.”
“a tireless fighter against forgetting. He always sought justice, not vengeance. This was the motto of his life.”
“The real business of life is trying to understand each other.”
“It is well known that both churches are very concerned about the expulsion of religious values from the life of modern society and the need to preserve Christian ethical standards in it. Our cooperation is absolutely necessary. It is awaited by millions of people - believers and spiritual seekers alike.”
“But paying is part of the game of life: it is the joy of buying that we crave.”
“Trying to interview him before a game is completely and totally worthless. He gives you these kind of guttural grunts. He basically mumbles anyway, so I had difficulty understanding him.”
“You can have separate identities for the separate parts of your life. For example, you can have a health-care identity that you use to discuss your health care problems, and a separate identity that you use to apply for health insurance, which is your true identity. But now, those two identities are separated.”
“As a good investor, you have to be drawing on all manner of life experiences. It's not simply about looking and analyzing balance sheets.”
“There's always a race against time. I don't think for one moment that life gets better. How can it? One's body starts to fall apart.”
“One of the most important experiences in my life”
“You go through life in a series of peaks and valleys.”
“Having a kit at the minimum will make life more pleasant.”
“She has changed my whole life after my mom passed away; she's like my mother, she is.”
“Most of us can visualize the need for life and health insurance, but we cannot see ourselves needing help with activities of daily living — bathing, dressing, getting up from a chair or worse, the dreaded memory loss of Alzheimer's disease. My usual clients are the ones who have seen the need up close and personal.”
“I love places that have an incredible history. I love the Italian way of life, I love the food, I love the people, I love the attitudes of Italians.”
“Once you have a baby, your life is definitely different. So you need to remember to take time with each other and for yourself.”
“I think every child, every person at some point in their life feels like they don't fit in, ... I wanted to plant some seeds with this book in young children today to realize how important it is to have your identity and to be who you are.”
“Yes, the more I go through life I realize that there's really no separation between practice and art at all. The two things more and more become one rather than two different aspects of my life.”
“Americans spend an average of 29 hours a week watching television ... which means in a typical life span we devote 13 uninterrupted years to our TV sets! ... Cutting down just an hour a day would provide extra years of life — for music and family, exercise and reading, conversation and coffee.”
“Communication. It's the first thing we really learn in life. Funny thing is, once we grow up, learn our words and really start talking, the harder it becomes to know what to say. Or how to ask for what we really need.”
“Sara is the kind of artist I could listen to every day for the rest of my life and, honestly, never grow tired of. The other day there was something hanging over our house – just heaviness – and I went over and put on 'Conversations,' and it totally changed the atmosphere in the room. Her music welcomes Jesus into a room without it seeming forced or contrived. … There's such a sweet brokenness and honesty in her music that makes you want to live like that and see the Christ-ward life like she does.”
“A penalty shootout can go either way. In everything you do - in football as in life - you need a bit of luck and today we had some.”
“At this point, it sort of has a life of its own.”
“We should work together to improve the quality of life in Lawrence County.”
“It's a great regret in my life that I never met the man. But I feel like I can talk about him, because I know so many people on both sides of the ocean that are so greatly influenced by him. He was a man of boundless energy and extraordinary vision.”
“They informed me that Chris was released and put on a plane to begin a period of readjustment to life in the community.”
“Probably one of the most difficult moments of my life was the 11 minutes from the point I watched that aircraft when we first lost communications to the point that aircraft hit the World Trade Center.”
“Being mortal, never pray for an untroubled life; But ask the gods to give you an enduring heart”
“She's never been arrested for anything in her life and this has been very damaging to her economically and emotionally.”
“The illegal immigrants, they deserve to get their papers and live a life like everybody else.”
“It is just nonsense but these things will happen to the boy throughout his life.”
“Because of this, my son is left without a father. If he felt his life was in danger, he has no business in this job.”
“still in shock over the loss of O?Brien, who made a huge impact on the district. But life goes on.”
“You always hear about how short life is, and to be kind. This was before his time.”
“Odds life! must one swear to the truth of a song?”
“It's definitely part of life now.”
“Berry Gordy believed in owning the artist for life and controlling everything: the money, the station wagons, everything.”
“People have been coming here for years, and the place looked like it looks. Now, there's a sign of life, and it's so large it subliminally sends a message.”
“In my life the only thing I know is football. We earned less, but we knew where we started from and then there was paradise, because this is the life of a player.”
“Steven has a humorous side to him that you wouldn't expect. I see more of it this season. Life is more normal for him in some ways. He's opening up slowly.”
“Please assure that America will value the life of my father and my sister more than the value of a cable car. Has America forgotten about this tragedy and about our families?”
“It's just tying up phone lines and could possibly cost somebody their life.”
“Every perfect life is a parable invented by God.”
“It is not in life, but in art that self-fulfillment is to be found.”
“Life does not need to mutilate itself in order to be pure.”
“It's a huge quality-of-life issue, and we're confident that these treatment plants are the solution.”
“As we advance in life, we acquire a keener sense of the value of time. Nothing else, indeed, seems of any consequence; and we become misers in this respect.”
“Absolutely not. I have no problem with commitment. In fact, I love having someone in my life.”
“I'm confident that they knew that there was a life-and-death issue going on.”
“Those who speak ill of the spiritual life, Although they come and go by day, Are like the smith's bellows: They take breath but are not alive.”
“Scotty lived and breathed lacrosse. Officiating was a big, big part of his life. He reached the highest level of the profession and was extremely well-liked by his fellow officials, well-respected by coaches at all levels.”
“It would seem to me his grandfather was just very matter-of-fact. These are the expectations of life. This is what you must do to be successful. But more than anything, he created an environment for him to have peace and be able to feel secure.”
“People do make a distinction between what someone does in his personal life and his ability to do his job. However, if this involved perjury or obstruction of justice, which speaks to his role as president, the public has not come to any conclusion on that yet.”
“I stayed at a Howard Johnson's once when I was 19 and that kind of scarred me for life.”
“This is a place to escape. You're escaping the everyday rigors of life.”
“It is too late to prevent the senseless and illegal shooting that took Victoria Cooper?s life, but we will have accomplished a lot if this case helps save the life of somebody else?s mother, daughter or sister,”
“If he's deemed dangerous ..., he could be kept there for the remainder of his life. The psychiatrists involved at (state corrections) and the attorneys in our office felt he was still a threat.”
“Water is life. Let's join hands and do the right thing.”
“There are only three pleasures in life pure and lasting, and all derived from inanimate things -- books, pictures, and the face of nature.”
“I knew they were going in. I'd dreamed of that moment all my life.”
“There are more important things in life than football, ... They are going through something where they need support and need some help. We are just here talking with kids and putting some smiles on some faces.”
“I don't know where her life journey has taken her since 1989. She never did anything anti-gay. But you never know where people go in the political spectrum over the years.”
“In art, in taste, in life, in speech, you decide from feeling, and not from reason . . . If we were obliged to enter into a theoretical deliberation on every occasion before we act, life would be at a stand, and Art would be impracticable.”
“At some time late in life, he may have returned to the British Isles.”
“I've had a few opportunities in my life to be a part of classic entertainment and anytime you have a chance to be a part of something that can stand the test of time, you relish it.”
“At the outset of life . . . our imagination has a body to it.”
“I want to be a cardiologist, but I always want spoken word in my life.”
“Consider the quality of life. A single person might want a more cosmopolitan area with an exciting nightlife. For someone married with children, the cost of living and the best education for their children become more important. You always want to ask: Will you fit in or not? Talk to people at the place where you'll be working. What do they do outside of work? That will become part of your life.”
“I basically committed two years of my life campaigning for candidates, building relationships and supporting people all over the city.”
“We quaff the cup of life with eager haste without draining it, instead of which it only overflows the brim --objects press around us, filling the mind with their magnitude and with the throng of desires that wait upon them. . .”
“You're a religious man, ... You believe in God and life after death. I also believe. When we come to the other world and meet the millions of Jews who died in the camps and they ask us, 'What have you done?' there will be many answers. You will say, 'I became a jeweler.' Another will say, 'I smuggled coffee and American cigarettes.' Another will say, 'I built houses.' But I will say, 'I didn't forget you.' ”
“Everything in life is difficult to enforce, but that's why we have judges in courts.”
“Poetry is all that is worth remembering in life.”
“If you've been told all your life that you're good-looking, people just flock around you and you never really have to try or have to learn an interesting craft, skill or hobby - or even have depth.”
“Whether (Tyco's) life as a short-seller's clay pigeon has been the driver or whether the company's own inability to make the case clearly enough has been the culprit, (Tyco) now is in a major league quandary.”
“Whether (Tyco's) life as a short-seller's clay pigeon has been the driver or whether the company's own inability to make the case clearly enough has been the culprit, (Tyco) now is in a major league quandary,”
“Life is the art of being well deceived.”
“every loss of innocent life.”
“What we want to do is offer educational programs that help prepare children to do well in life and adults to get better employment. And that's what Ave Maria is looking for. We're partners.”
“The most rational cure after all for the inordinate fear of death is to set a just value on life.”
“One thing he taught us was life after football. One thing that I've been doing in Nashua is teaching life after baseball. Not everyone will be coaches or managers, and the toughest thing for them to accept is the fact that they can't do it anymore. I teach them life's lessons.”
“I've lived a blessed life. I'm ready.”
“It's just a shock. You go from one day everything being OK to your life being upside down.”
“I've never run so hard to finish 10th in my life.”
“We live in times of high stress. Messages that are simple, messages that are inspiring, messages that are life-affirming, are a welcome break from our real lives.”
“All that is worth remembering of life is the poetry of it”
“Our mission is to make life simpler. Consumers are inundated with digital media solutions that are hard to use and deliver only part of the value they want. People deserve better access to their media and information than they have today. We are intensely focused on delivering a solution that removes the complexities of digital media management once and for all.”
“It's an anxious time. Getting traded can be a life-altering experience. With a team in our situation, you know they want to make improvements for next year, and you know there's players that other teams might want.”
“I try to contrast; life today is full of contrast ... We have to change.”
“You've got a right to try to live the life you choose.”
“This strange disease of modern life”
“And then he thinks he knows The hills where his life rose, And the sea where it goes”
“Basketball has taught all of us life skills from leadership skills to teamwork. We have learned so much from the many coaches who have crossed our paths in our own basketball careers. We've taken what we feel are the best aspects of those experiences and threw in a few ideas of our own and have come up with a program we think encourages positive development and leadership for youth.”
“I believe that people have a right to a private life, providing that their private life does not impinge upon their public responsibilities.”
“America loves the representation of its heroes to be not just larger than life, but stupendously, awesomely bigger than anything else. If blue whales built statues to each other they'd be smaller then these.”
“There is a growing public realization that abortion is an injustice, the destruction of an innocent human life.”
“It's not like poker: You can't throw your hand in. I've lived a blessed life. I'm ready.”
“Eating habits are evolving to meet the pace and structure of daily life. Consumers are responding to nutritional needs and the demands of daily life by missing meals, changing the times at which they eat and even changing the type of products they eat at each occasion.”
“I love my animals and the environment; it is hard to go from farm life to city life in a few hours. But I would do it for Minnie. We will do whatever it takes for her.”
“I got my life back together and I haven't looked back,”
“I'm enjoying life right now, ... I know you guys have been very negative towards me and that's your job, but I'm a very positive person and I've moved on.”
“It's not because they're bad people. It's just life skills and substance abuse. I can only think of a handful of scofflaws.”
“To have a real chance at a good job and a high quality of life, you almost have to have a college degree in this day and age. The issue really is expanding (the) capacity of our institutions to provide students with an affordable, high-quality education. There, the level of state investment is just absolutely crucial.”
“I call it a life sentence on the installment plan.”
“It was an ugly measure. The Islamic Republic of Iran is prepared to sacrifice its life for its belief in Islam and the honor of the holy Prophet.”
“A state version of the Human Life Amendment has never been attempted. We believe, as the pro-life movement has always believed ... that the legal recognition of unborn children using a constitutional process would resoundingly overturn Roe. v. Wade.”
“All these songs represent a true event in our lives. Each song is a slice of real life, that has been affected by the presence of God.”
“I wanted to make sure I'd have a life after wrestling.”
“The rovers have proven their value with major discoveries about ancient watery environments on Mars that might have harbored life,”
“It is very possible before the Human Life Amendment gets to the Supreme Court that another justice might also retire.”
“If nothing in life is a struggle then life itself will become one”
“There's no idea in the world that is not contained by black life. I could write forever about the black experience in America.”
“I think this helped me to learn how to deal with everything. (Life) now isn't as hard, but (this) taught me how to get through hardships. (People during the Depression) stuck it out as family and friends.”
“This method is not earth-shattering in a political sense but it is important for the life of people in Kosovo.”
“Beauty and happiness and life are all the same and they are pervasive, unattached and abstract and they are our only concern. They are immeasurable, completely lacking in substance. They are perfect and sublime. This is the subject matter of art.”
“This is a new step in the life of Mount Angel Abbey and the seminary. It gives us a real sense of hope. We're moving ahead.”
“It is a political law of life that those who think they are going to lose fight like steers,”
“Its hard to have a decent family life and advance at work,”
“When I go to speaking engagements, I am not trying to change someone's life. I just want to share my insights, humiliations and mistakes so you don't feel so alone.”
“He came into the room larger than life, but was different from what I thought he would be. He told us that raising a family and having kids is really important -- relationships with people. He said to be loved, you've got to be lovable.”
“Israel has been systematically making life difficult in the Jordan Valley in order to reduce the number of Palestinians living there.”
“The trouble with us in America isn't that the poetry of life has turned to prose, but that it has turned to advertising copy.”
“Honestly, to see these guys perform tonight is the proudest moment of my life. I came up with the idea four years ago. I just thought we should bring this music to the masses like we've done tonight. You see the reaction.”
“It was very disturbing that I put in ten years of my life trying to do something good for kids, and the struggles I had from the University. I was even looking at my [College] World Series pictures the other day and it's almost like they don't mean anything to me anymore. It's really a shame, because I had some great times with some really great kids.”
“Anytime you can use real life examples in teaching is a positive experience for the students. Studying the cars on the track and translating the data from runs will help the students learn how calculus has many uses.”
“Weed's part of my life. It's just always been with me.”
“This is a life decision for Dany. There were a lot of unfortunate things that have happened during his time in Atlanta, and we just felt that it would be good for him to find a new home to play and make a fresh start.”
“Life may exist in yonder dark, but it will not wear the shape of man”
“Ultimately, this decision for us wasn't so much of a business decision. It was more of a life decision.”
“It's a celebration of life over death. The whole message of Holy Week is the message of God to join him.”
“From service in St. Louis, I realized I needed to spend my life doing good.”
“I have known Jerry a long time and I think this was a serious change in his life, ... Never before has he said that he recognized us as a class -- as a protected class -- like other Americans. Now he has included us as gay and straight, right in there with black and white, man and woman, rich and poor, young and old and everybody else. That's important.”
“The co-head structure hardly ever works in investment banking, so it had a limited shelf life.”
“It's just part of the background of modern life.”
“Zeal for the greatness of England was the passion of his life.”
“He did what he needed to do. I'm not mad at him. It's a situation. It's life. You move on. ... I learned my lesson. There's no hard feelings.”
“Life is too serious to do farce comedy.”
“This man's life has been turned upside down in the way Bristol Township has treated him. Bristol Township has used Steve McClain like a $2 whore.”
“I owe all my success in life to having been always a quarter of an hour before my time.”
“Things are coming to a pretty pass when religion is allowed to invade private life.”
“Perfection irritates as well as it attracts, in fiction as in life.”
“The people in Broward County who are worried or entranced by the possibility [ The Dynamics of Life ] is presenting intelligent design or creationism are, I think, mistaken.”
“My craziest ideas come from cartoons. I approach music by taking that cartoon extreme and the real life extreme and finding somewhere in the middle. The animated element lures people in, but the real-life substance puts the nail in the coffin.”
“Should I be in fear of my own life?”
“They have broken a life, they have not cracked our values and our desire for the peace.”
“...Creative Power is the only feasible answer to the origin of life from a scientific perspective.”
“Our way of life, our destiny, both as Europeans and Italians, is tied to that of the United States,”
“It is the most important contract I have ever signed in my life.”
“Far graver is it to corrupt the faith that is the life of the soul than to counterfeit the money that sustains temporal life.”
“You need only a 5-10 percent loss of weight to get major gains in life expectancy.”
“It's a quality of life issue. It's a matter of their personal safety.”
“The life science industry is doing well in Michigan, one of the few, and it is succeeding without lifting the ban on cloning stem cells or creating and destroying embryos.”
“There is no stopping place in this life -- nor is there ever one for any man, no matter how far along his way he's gone.”
“Mark Simpson told me he'll be looking for that man the rest of his life. And I believe him.”
“The heart of animals is the foundation of their life, the sovereign of everything within them, the sun of their microcosm, that upon which all growth depends, from which all power proceeds.”
“[Every laboratory experiment to] produce some of the simplest chemicals of life has completely failed, ... The information carried in DNA cannot be explained by the laws of physics and chemistry.”
“I've been in Houston for 20 years, most of my adult life. I've never seen the city this excited about baseball. I think the signings of [ Andy ] Pettitte and [ Roger ] Clemens have left the city somewhat in shock. There's this 'I-can't-believe-this-is-really-happening' feeling.”
“Overall, a lot of people will be making big life choices this year. Real estate will continue to be good. So will insurance and brokering. There will be a lot of coming and going of people in South Florida.”
“If you are strangling someone and staring them in their eyes as you're depriving them of their life and breath we think that should be taken as seriously as a stabbing.”
“These accusations change your life. As teachers, we have to do everything in our power not to put ourselves in a situation where we would be accused of something like this.”
“He quizzed Ashton relentlessly on whether he was ready to leave the single life for good. At one point, the source says, Wilmer blurted out, 'Don't do it!' But by then Ashton's mind was made up.”
“This is a very big quality-of-life issue that we will be addressing.”
“Laverne was the most relaxed first-time mom I've ever met in my life. Nothing ever phased her.”
“He's been a bodybuilder his whole life ... and he's just trying to keep his connection to the industry.”
“I had a pretty cool life. I met my wife when I was 18, and we're still totally in love. I was in a successful rock band. That wasn't my personal dream, but it was a lot of people's. I had to learn a lot more about gratitude. When I no longer got everything I wanted, I learned the importance of my family, my wife, my friends. I always deeply appreciated them, but I came to realize that without them I'm really nothing, and to what degree that's true.”
“I've got much in my life that's so good: my wife, my children, my friends. I don't need anything filled up by success or a band, ... If I'm going to play with people, I'm going to do it in situations that match the rest of my life, where there's a lot of joy and a lot of love.”
“I am faintly disturbed that this has turned into instant uplift. You'd hate to see him turn his life into a career of telling the same story that resulted from an accident.”
“Everyone has a niche in life. This is what I was meant to do.”
“Life is a series of stepping stones followed with a series of stumbling blocks ....”
“Do not kick against the pricks of life.”
“The people have really suffered and have had no reason to enjoy life.”
“Do not contemplate on death; it is just an incident in life; contemplate on God, who is the master of all life.”
“When you play a tough schedule, times like this are a way of life. But the chance to beat the best is part of why kids come here to play tennis. We have to get used to it.”
“It's not terminal, but it's life threatening, and it's a chronic illness. They're trying to keep her pain under control. They're having a hard time.”
“Your thoughts play a vital role in shaping your life.”
“God alone is the giver of life, the guardian of life, and the goal of life.”
“The experience of this one life must be enough to show you that there is no joy unmixed with grief, that both grief and joy are short-lived and they both depend on the mind and its control. You do not require the experience of a series of lives to grasp this patent fact.”
“It can be really hard to have a life as a pet sitter. You are literally holding that animal's life in your hands so you have to make a very strong commitment.”
“It was one of the best experiences of my life. I wish we could have gone to the playoffs and achieved more during my four years involved.”
“Death and life are the manifestations of God’s activity. You cannot separate the two. God permeates all.”
“My whole life has been changed by this experience.”
“What is needed today is that we should lead a life of good quality. The fostering of sterling character and good conduct is the need of the world. Once we have greater numbers of such people of good quality, the country and the world will become prosperous and peaceful.”
“A father's interest in having a child -- perhaps his only child -- may be unmatched by any other interest in life.”
“No single person will receive enough to genuinely change their life. This money is symbolic of the fact that while you were still alive, people cared enough to forge a legal resolution.”
“The club has worked with and supported Diana through significant life obstacles. As a developing learner, staff has coached Diana through her most difficult subjects, teaching her to create and meet her academic goals.”
“Have faith in His Grace and lead a virtuous life, a life devoted to the service of the weak; a life spent in the thought about the might and glory of God.”
“It's important to hold something back, though, because quite frankly my personal life is pretty dull and I don't want to bore people with it.”
“I may have been a golden retriever in a past life. When I walk down the street, strange dogs I've never met before look at me and do double takes. They do. They look again.”
“People ask why a man who has been known for writing love songs all of his life is suddenly rocking the boat. I had to do it. This is very personal to me, and this is the most passionate album I have ever made. I had to express myself, not only musically but lyrically. It was time for me to ask, 'Who are these people who are taking control of our lives and how do we stop the violence?' I've got two little kids and a 19-year-old son and I wonder what they're going to do with their lives. It's so personal to me that I even decided to do some of the singing. This is dedicated to my kids and your kids.”
“Ice boats were really the focus of his life.”
“Acting's not my whole life. My children definitely come first.”
“In order to lead a fruitful and meaningful life, render service to mankind, which will take you nearer to God.”
“It's not spectacular. Sometimes, countries are not interesting. But when you have 48 years of life expectancy, and infant mortality rates are catastrophic, this is an ongoing disaster.”
“An interpreter brings to life music in the form that it is given to him, that is, a constellation of black spots on a page. But if the interpreter doesn't identify with the music and can't be one with it, then no number of directions [from the composer] will be of any help.”
“75% of what happens to Paul Gascoigne in his life is fiction.”
“God is the life-breath of every soul.”
“You could say, 'How does a guy who has written love songs his entire life suddenly decide to rock the boat?”
“It was the most crazy spring break I've ever had in my life.”
“Occupations and resultant attitudes have been assigned to the various stages of human life.”
“You must give up the luggage of your desires and wishes and thus make life less burdensome.”
“They just have a broad knowledge of life, and they have a broad range of skills.”
“Desire plus life is man, Life minus desire is God.”
“I'm relieved. I've had [a BlackBerry] for about a year, and at this point, I can't imagine life without it.”
“Life is an opportunity afforded to each not to eat and drink, but to achieve something nobler and higher to merge in the Reality.”
“Of all the movies I've done in my life, the one where I play a crazy awful psycho woman finds me my husband.”
“Let your whole life be a spiritual song.”
“Without God, life is like a school without a teacher. It is a wire with no current passing through it; it is a body with no soul.”
“This is a project that enhances quality of life and economic competitiveness of the entire region.”
“Since my new focus is acting, ... my primary focus was bringing David Burke's character to life. My focus was artistic.”
“I'm gonna stay in Culpeper and wash this pig the rest of my life.”
“My life is about as perfect as life can be. It's like going on vacation every time you come home.”
“[I]t is taught that willing and voluntary service to others is the highest duty and glory in human life. The men of talent are constantly forced to serve the rest. They make the discoveries and inventions, order the battles, write the books, and produce the works of art. The benefit and enjoyment go to the whole. There are those who joyfully order their own lives so that they may serve the welfare of mankind.”
“Seven days is the length of a guest's life”
“If you have a really busy and stimulating stressful life, the only way that you can keep that going is through relaxation. That is the whole reason why we have to sleep every night.”
“I accomplished everything I wanted to do in life and still was left with an unfulfilled part of me.”
“They get you talked about as a filmmaker. They'll give you film life, and that will give you life as a filmmaker.”
“Isn't that exciting? The quality of life in our communities depends on all of us. That is what community policing is all about: how we can do it together.”
“I've been playing with these guys for what seems like my whole life, and we just mesh together.”
“He was the most smooth-talking man I've ever met in my life.”
“The article is based on my experience with gossip on the show, and in my personal life.”
“I looked at his life and walking was a big deal. I suddenly saw how lucky I was. I still grump and grumble, but I've really opened up to opening up.”
“This is just our way of showing the love of God in a real-life practical way. I call it putting feet on our faith.”
“We continue to consume because we have come to believe that a life of love, comfort and safety for ourselves and for our children can be obtained item by item.”
“Then you kind of look around and say, what else can life do? Does it have to be negative? You become impressed with -- it's changeable and things don't have to be the way they are.”
“I need to take advantage of life right now. If I don't, it will pass me by. It's just that easy.”
“Today as we celebrate the birth, the life, the dream of Dr. Martin Luther King, it is a time for our nation to remember the injustices that Dr. King fought (against). It is a time to remember his fight for freedom, equality and dignity of all races and all people. He was an incredible man ... he forced our nation to look inside and face our own flaws.”
“I study a lot. I pay attention to my homework. My parents have pushed academics all my life. When I get home, I do my homework before I do anything else.”
“This allows everyone to tell a story and create memories of their life here at BYU.”
“When I accepted Jesus into my life. I'm telling the truth now.”
“When I think of art I think of beauty. Beauty is the mystery of life. It is not in the eye it is in the mind. In our minds there is awareness of perfection.”
“I want them to have experiences and let them see that there's more to life than what's around the corner.”
“The quality of life is second to none. We welcome you with open arms. We are glad you're here.”
“That's pretty special. That's what he's wanted to do his whole life. He just puts his whole life into running, and I'm really happy for Matt.”
“We're going to be focused on the last days of life, making it as meaningful and as graceful for the patients and their families as possible.”
“My dad has been a huge influence on my life. He's been injured, drafted into the NFL. He's started, been benched, cut and traded. I've watched how he's gone through those good times and bad times.”
“That young man will either be killed by you or he will spend the rest of his life in prison in a country that is not his own.”
“You grow up out in the country and you grow up doing this all your life. Dad taught you everything he knew as far as farming, and you learn to respect it.”
“That's unfortunate because, in the biggest game of your life, you want to play with the balls you've been playing with all season.”
“Instead of looking at life as a narrowing funnel, we can see it ever widening to choose the things we want to do, to take the wisdom we've learned and create something.”
“Our job's done, ... but he's gotta live with that scarlet letter for the rest of his life.”
“It's called running for your life. I should have scored, probably. It was uncharted territory for me.”
“I'm tired. I have a life I'm trying to live, which I'm taking away from. We may have to sell, we may have to move, but I did my best.”
“I'm going to hug him ... and let him know that he had to move forward in his life and become a star player in the big leagues.”
“He has no right to his life when his duty calls him to resign it. Other men are bound... to deprive him of life or liberty, if that should appear in any case to be indispensably necessary to prevent a greater evil.”
“Listen to the lyrics - we're singing about everyday life: rich people trying to keep money, poor people tying to get it, and everyone having trouble with their husband or wife!”
“What indeed is life, unless so far as it is enjoyed? It does not merit the name.”
“I can't believe what has happened, but that's life. We were really quick in practice and the morning's warm-up and I was ecstatic with the starts to both races. There's just that feeling of emptiness that we were wrongly deprived of a significant advantage.”
“One Life to Live”
“The last two days were probably the hardest thing I've done in my whole life. I've never been anywhere for 17 years. It was a lot of memories,”
“He lived life on his own terms and lived it to its full potential.”
“We're so lucky. Life is so beautiful and we owe our lives to the rescuers, doctors and everyone who helped us survive the disaster.”
“They're really coming to life a little more. They're trying to make their playoff push, they're trying to be a competitive team right now. Anytime you play a three-time champion, you've got to expect them to come out and play hard regardless, because they've been there before.”
“It just shows how one person can turn around and exceed his authority and make somebody else's life a living hell.”
“This is the performance of his life. If he does not hit his mark on the first take and get the jury to look past what they saw in the first half of the trial, he is going to spend the rest of his life as a ward of the federal government.”
“Everybody's been faced with those kind of choices in their life,”
“The poor don't need their consciousness raised as to what a good life looks like,”
“It's like an alternate world. It's a day in the life of the actual group, so they took little quirks about everybody's personality and amplified it a whole lot. David the drummer is the pretty boy in the group, so he keeps a mirror around, he has to make sure that he's tight before he goes onstage.”
“This whole thing came on when I was 37. Up to there I lived a normal life.”
“That guy took a life that had just begun. Her daddy is not going to walk her down the aisle. She's not going to have babies. She's not going to get married. I mean, it's over for her, and this guy is sitting all cozy in a jail cell eating dinner right now and that's the reality of it.”
“It was really a good home for anything that had to do with writing and books. That was our life.”
“We made too many mistakes defensively. We'll go back at it, regroup. They showed some life, so we'll keep plugging away.”
“I never thought that you should be rewarded for the greatest privilege of life.”
“Acting alongside the larger-than-life star I'd grown up idolizing back in Delight, Arkansas, was truly one of the most memorable experiences of my life.”
“Her artwork is so stunning. Just her ability to put thread together and bring such life to it. Her colors are so well suited to each other, and the art has such universal appeal. I think she's very talented.”
“They could serve slop. They saved my son's life.”
“I mean, one is living an amazingly privileged life. It's only been the last 20 or so years that one could have possibly gone to all the places you and I go to.”
“I'll live with that for the rest of my life. I mean I couldn't help him.”
“For his entire adult life, John Roberts has been a disciple of and promoted a political and legal ideology that is antithetical to an America that embraces all, including lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people, ... I have no doubt he's an accomplished lawyer and an affable dinner companion, but that doesn't make him any less a mortal danger to equal rights for gay people, reproductive freedom and affirmative action.”
“You're never happy when someone gets a life sentence, but there were some exceptional people who came forward to testify on Terry's behalf.”
“Had this little lion lived, he would have been doomed to a life of extreme confinement and boredom.”
“The French Quarter and Uptown, you see life basically as it was before the storm. It's eerie, because life really is normal in those neighborhoods and then you cross over the Industrial Canal and enter the lower Ninth Ward or eastern New Orleans, and it looks like a bomb just went off yesterday.”
“The first year was the hardest for us. There weren't any bad surprises. It is just another kind of life, maybe more comfortable than in Russia from one side. But from another side, we didn't have enough money, we didn't know the language and it was the hardest thing for us.”
“I've hung around airplanes all my life, ... I don't need to see another plane take off.”
“I worshipped money so much that it ruined my life. Money is not my god. I just want to manage His money for Him, for the poor people, the lost kids. I just love everybody.”
“He's a little bewildered by this. This is like a celebration of life and he'll be there (for) it. It's a live celebration of life.”
“I just really felt like there was a life in it. I just really dug it from the beginning,”
“Precisely the ultimate and most sublime values have retreated from public life either into the transcendental realm of mystic life or into the brotherliness of direct and personal human relations.”
“We look better than we maybe really are. I know I look better than I do in real life.”
“She stated that she wanted a pastor to pray with her so she could thank God for saving her life, ... She's 8 years old. Isn't that the most beautiful thing you've ever heard?”
“Besides the noble art of getting things done there is the art of leaving things undone. The wisdom of life consists in the elimination of non-essentials.
”
“I was happy where I was. I liked what I was doing. It was my life.”
“Life is arched with changing skies:
Rarely are they what they seem:
Children we of smiles and sighs --
Much we know, but more we dream.”
“Faith has always been a part of my life. I just never knew where it was going to lead me. I've always said that God draws straight with crooked lines. When I look back, I am glad I followed the straight line. Everything I learned in the business world has been a life experience. It's helped me become who I am and it really helped the calling.”
“It's a very diverse community, with people from all different backgrounds and walks of life. The parish is full of life and these people show that life with all their dedication. I've really enjoyed working with them. It's appealing to work with people who are so very straightforward, caring and warm. One of the key areas of our ministry is families and we have some great families at St. Lawrence. We're constantly learning and moving forward.”
“A central goal of conservation is to protect and preserve the ecosystem functions and processes upon which all life depends. Because food-chain length affects these ecosystem functions and processes, we need to understand how food-chain length varies and what causes this variation.”
“People need to understand that the greatest potential for large loss of life is from the storm surge flooding near the coastline,”
“Because my life is so full, I'm usually focused on the present and not the future. But now I have to start making sure we put away enough money. There's never enough money and there's never enough time.”
“The project is just so boxed-in, it seems perfect in paper, but how will this be in real life?”
“completely in line with what I'm doing. Without getting too philosophical, I sort of look at life as being one scene after another anyway. That's true.”
“It was difficult at times to balance my school life with my pageant life. At times all I wanted to do was be a 'normal' college student, but in the back of my mind, I knew the only reason why I was able to attend Syracuse was because of the scholarships I was earning through pageants.”
“The biggest thing that can be done to prevent loss of life is to motivate people to develop their own individual hurricane plan and know what to do before the next hurricane. Some of these folks, take Mississippi in Katrina, they died because they didn't have a hurricane plan.”
“The potential for large loss of life is with us.”
“If all I do in my life is soothe someone's spirit with a song, then let me do that and I'm happy.”
“I'm not a cop killer. I value life.”
“She would say that her relationship with God and her relationship with us gave her life meaning.”
“[Merkel received her introduction to Western politics when Helmut Kohl, Germany's larger-than-life Chancellor, tapped her as Minister for Women and Youth for his Cabinet in 1991. She established herself as both ambitious and willing to learn, outmaneuvering a succession of male colleagues to take the party leadership in 2000.] She's criticized for being timid, ... but she's a political panther.”
“We've seen how he cares about people, and he's had adversity in his life. Willie cares.”
“My children are my greatest blessings in my life, and they bring me great joy.”
“Somehow life doesn't always pay off to those who are most insistent.”
“Not a moment or an instant's delay is permitted, when one's measure of life is full. By Guru's Grace, one comes to know the True One, and is absorbed into Him.”
“If it's (a certain book) not being used, that's a pretty good indicator. Fiction generally has a shorter shelf life than nonfiction, though if, for instance, we have the last copy of 'Tom Sawyer' I don't care if it hasn't been checked our for five years, we're not getting rid of it.”
“I'm so proud, because he applied his own tourniquet in the field and saved his own life.”
“Life is useless, as long as one does not know the Lord God.”
“The life-night passes away, and in the end, one comes to regret and repent, and then depart with no hope at all.”
“David said something jumped across him at the second, and that frightened the life out of him. He took a bit of time to get his confidence back after that, but maybe it was a blessing in disguise because that way he didn't get into the race too soon.”
“We are really just trying to improve the quality of life for our soldiers.”
“O Giver of peace of the soul, of life, of honor - as You ordain, I obtain peace.”
“Life must go on. This is a tough loss for our team. He will be missed.”
“Through the Guru's Teachings, I merge with intuitive ease into the Lord, the Life of the World, the Fearless One, the Great Giver.”
“So long as you are ready to die for humanity, the life of your country is immortal”
“[That wasn't acceptable to the patient.] I only do two things in life, ... I write and I play the piano.”
“I didn't know how to begin to mourn him. He had been the pivotal figure in my life.”
“It's a game, my hobby and my way of life,”
“Without the Lord's Name, life is worthless.”
“She's devastated. This program was her life.”
“It's disappointing, but at the same time, there are worse things in life. Last night they were thinking maybe I tore something. To wake up this morning and find out it's just a sprain is great news. You've got to look at things in perspective.”
“Both the efforts and the contribution he made will be permanently admired by all circles of life and the people from the two sides will remember him forever.”
“He is the Giver of peace to the breath of life, the Giver of life to the soul; how can one forget Him”
“His death impacted many people, ... He enjoyed life to the fullest.”
“O Lord, Life of the World, please shower me with Your Mercy; grant me the Sanctuary of the Guru”
“Life and death come to all who are born. Everything here gets devoured by Death. He sits and examines the accounts, there where no one goes along with anyone. Those who weep and wail might just as well all tie bundles of straw.”
“Life begins at 40 -- but so do fallen arches, rheumatism, faulty eyesight, and the tendency to tell a story to the same person, three or four times.”
“They're doing something to the field of medicine that's going to make life a hell of a lot easier to people who've got that problem. I think I'll have a bunch of other parts go bad before I have a problem with this.”
“My life has been lost, wasted in vain! I am totally miserable! O Baba Nanak, no one cares for me at all!”
“You will think me lamentably crude: my experience of life has been drawn from life itself”
“The body is wild, and the mind is foolish. Practicing egotism, selfishness and conceit, your life is passing away.”
“The Lord alone kills and restores to life; no one else can protect anyone from Him. They go without giving alms or any cleansing baths; their shaven heads become covered with dust.”
“I think you earn what you get out of life. I've always worked hard … I was working hard in my dad's cornfields by the time I was seven.”
“In death and in life, worship and adore the Lord, the Support of all.”
“The determination of life insurance salesmen to succeed has made life pretty soft for widows.”
“The last 16 years of my daddy's life, he got to work for me, and that made him his own boss and he like that.”
“Would I love every person in this crime to receive life in the penitentiary? Absolutely. But we have had to work with the first two defendants to be able to achieve even charging Ms. Burwell.”
“[By the time of the early September video-game shoot in San Diego, life as a superstar] seems pretty natural to me, ... . . . The winning thing is the most important. If you lose, you'll be forgotten.”
“Doubt ‘til thou canst doubt no more … doubt is thought and thought is life. Systems which end doubt are devices for drugging thought.”
“We will not let terrorists change our way of life; we will not live in fear; and we will not undermine the civil liberties that characterize our Democracy.”
“Win the game of life; let your mind surrender and accept death.”
“For the first time in my life I saw a real computer.”
“It was the longest three hours of my life, there's no doubt about that.”
“The empty body is dreadful, when the soul goes out from within. The burning fire of life is extinguished, and the smoke of the breath no longer emerges. The five relatives (the senses) weep and wail painfully, and waste away through the love of duality.”
“is a solid step in the right direction toward cultivating a culture that values human life and the rights of the unborn.”
“You may practice chanting, penance and austere self-discipline within your mind, but without the Name, life is useless.”
“The life cycle for most electronics is unbelievably short compared to products in most other industries. For this reason, product managers and design engineers work with their blinders on to get products done quickly. They're looking for products and solutions that will help them now; they simply don't have time or interest in marketing hype.”
“I like the idea of bringing cartoon characters to life... and although the Americans have already attempted this, their culture is not sufficiently humane to make it work.”
“I have been doodling with ink and watercolor on paper all my life. It's my way of stirring up my imagination to see what I find hidden in my head. I call the results dream pictures, fantasy sketches, and even brain-sharpening exercises.”
“The mother thinks that her son is growing up; she does not understand that, day by day, his life is diminishing.”
“Come and meet me, O Life of the World, my Beloved. Please bless me with Your Mercy, and enshrine Your Name, Har, Har, within my mind.”
“His life has not exactly been a walk down easy street.”
“Please reward my faith, O Life of the World, O Great Giver. Obtaining the Blessed Vision of the Lord's Darshan, my mind is fulfilled.”
“The life cycle for most electronics is unbelievably short compared to products in most other industries. For this reason, product managers and design engineers work with their blinders on to get products done quickly. They're looking for products and solutions that will help them now; they simply don't have time or interest in marketing hype.”
“If two individuals love one another and care about each other, that's what life is supposed to be about. It's all a fairness issue, once again. I support recognition of civil unions and I would support legislation that recognizes the realities of a loving, caring relationship between two individuals, regardless of gender.”
“The Lord is my mind, body and breath of life. I do not know any other than the Lord.”
“I can't leave music, it's my life.”
“The Companion of my breath of life shall always be with me.”
“You long for the dignity of a long life, but your eyes can no longer see anything.”
“When others die, you measure your own wealth in your mind; you waste your life in the pleasures of the mouth and sexual organs.”
“That was one of the greatest sports moments of my life. It was too cold to enjoy it outside, though. I enjoyed it in the locker room afterwards.”
“I'm really hurt and disappointed, but life goes on. You have disagreements in organizations all the time, but to not be able to coach your first game or first season ... it's disappointing.”
“You bless everyone. Please bring my life to fulfillment. The body-temple is sanctified by the Blessed Vision of Your Darshan, and thus, the impregnable fort of the soul is conquered.”
“An artist carries on throughout his life a mysterious, uninterrupted conversation with his public.”
“While standing and sitting, while sleeping and while awake, meditate on the Lord, all your life.”
“The tree of knowledge is not the tree of life! And yet can we cast out of our spirits all the good or evil poured into them by so many learned generations? Ignorance cannot be learned.”
“Guardian Life Insurance Co. of America was our first client. We started out producing an annual incentive meeting for their 1,000 top sales representatives. We'll do our 15th one for them this May.”
“When the soul drifts uncertainly between life and the dream, between the mind's disorder and the return to cool reflection, it is in religious thought that we should seek consolation.”
“I never hit a walk-off home run in my whole life. Not in my whole life. Not even in Little League.”
“Toshiba's strength is that it covers the full life cycle of a nuclear plant [from design and construction through maintenance]. We will be able to offer the total package to Westinghouse's clients as well.”
“I've got more going on in my life than just reporting potholes. But this seemed worth it.”
“The last step would be to prove that substantially lowering blood pressure throughout life would prevent the increasing WGM and VG. The story is evolving rapidly now.”
“Cheated and plundered by Maya, you do not think of God, and you waste your life in laziness.”
“God is the Breath of Life of my soul, the Support of my mind. His devotees live by singing the Glorious Praises of the Infinite Lord.”
“Through the Perfect Guru, congratulations are pouring in - Nanak is victorious on the arduous battlefield of life!”
“Life insurance provides financial cover should the unthinkable happen, enabling people to be secure in the knowledge that their dependants could receive a cash lump sum if they were to die. Homeowners in particular should take care not to overlook life insurance as it can help to ensure the property is paid for upon death, alleviating any financial burden and may even provide financial security for loved ones.”
“I was having a real tough time in my personal life. I had been involved in an abusive relationship were I was beaten almost nearly to death. I came to a fork in the road in my life were I could go down the path of destruction or salvation. And by the grace of God boxing came into my life.”
“Here is bread, which strengthens man's heart, and therefore is called the staff of Life.”
“If you remember the Lord in meditation for a moment, even for an instant, then your life will become fruitful and prosperous.”
“The Life of the World, the Sustainer of the Earth, has showered His Mercy; the Guru's Feet have come to dwell within my mind.”
“The Name of the Lord, Har, Har, is my soul and my breath of life. I shall never again have to cross over the terrifying world-ocean.”
“This officer's life was in imminent danger, and they did what they had to do.”
“If it wasn't for all the people around you and in your life, you couldn't do anything, ... You can't do it all by yourself.”
“Toshiba's strength is that it covers the full life cycle of a nuclear plant [from design and construction through maintenance]. We will be able to offer the total package to Westinghouse's clients as well.”
“The Lord, the Life of the World, has come to meet me, O my Lord of the Universe. The night of my life now passes in peace.”
“Please unite me with the True Guru, my breath of life; through Him, O my Lord and Master, You are known.”
“Coming to a homeless shelter, trying to recover from alcoholism, I had to do something to turn my life around.”
“Life of the World, Infinite Lord and Master, Master of the Universe, All-powerful Architect of Destiny. Whichever way You turn me, O my Lord and Master, that is the way I shall go.”
“This is the infusion of life into the idol or invoking the divinity in to the idol. Until this is done, the idol remains a sculpture.”
“Something in life inspires me, ... I have a song on my new record, 'Visions of God,' about my kids and not missing the important moments.”
“I've always had the perspective that roles come into my life when I need them most and sort of teach me lessons. The same can be true of films, films are released into society to aid in a lesson, inspire people, comfort people.”
“How can the Lord be obtained, O Saints? Seeing Him, my life is sustained.”
“I can't think of anything else I'd want to have on my body for the rest of my life.”
“From the White House to the Lust Boat: The Lurid, Untold Life of the National Football League.”
“Meditating on the Patron of lost souls, the Companion of all, your life shall not be lost in the gamble.”
“It was a big part of his life. He opened the school [as facilities director] in 1965. He would get there at 6 a.m.”
“To love the Lotus Feet of the Lord - this way of life has come into the minds of His Saints.”
“Life Is A Church”
“You may find many contradictory statements and philosophies within my writings. However, to this I will say such is life, for life is full of contradictions.”
“Tweens are at the place in life where they are beginning to assert their independence from Mom and Dad.”
“I plan to talk to a lot of people and structure my life in a way that might have a bit more flexibility and a lot more fun factor, ... I don't intend to rush (into a job). I have the luxury of time.”
“Let sincere faith be your bowing in prayer, and let the conquest of your mind be your objective in life.”
“You have a life line that you can call and ask them, but you have to give them the password or they won't tell you the answer.”
“One who reflects upon his allotted span of life, becomes the slave of God.”
“Die before the one whom you love; to live after he dies is to live a worthless life in this world.”
“When the body falls, the play of life is over; what shall be the condition of the evil-doers then?”
“FORTY DAYS is a social, spiritual and learning experiment in which people experience the intensity of monastic life. The purpose is not religious conversion per se, but it is to expose people to the reality of unplugging from modern life completely and creating the opportunity to explore their beliefs in a contemplative environment. The tone of the series will be thoughtful and respectful to the brothers and sisters who have made their monastery home to our production team and the participants in the series.”
“One of the most important things one can do in life is to brutally question every single thing you are taught.”
“O my mind, serve the True One, as long as you have the breath of life. Without the True One, everything is false; in the end, all shall perish.”
“Modern life is confusing - no "Ms take" about it.”
“The Blues are the true facts of life expressed in words and song, inspiration, feeling, and understanding.”
“These young boys are going to be middle-aged men. They're going to pay for his life with their youth.”
“I modeled my early life after her.”
“Without virtue, this human life passes away in vain.”
“Natural amiableness is too often seen in company with sloth, uselessness, with the vanity of fashionable life.”
“Teen girls are figuring out what they want out of life and who they want to be. They are becoming more and more independent, and are starting to make decisions that will affect them now and into the future. Combine this new responsibility with all the stress and pressures in their lives and the result, unfortunately, can be substance abuse.”
“It's January, and soon we'll be celebrating the life of Dr. King and remembering his dream. So, it's always hurtful to civil rights workers and for African-Americans in particular when we continue to be the target of these kinds of incidents. Racial segregation is still a problem, and this shows that there is still a need for affirmative action programs in Michigan.”
“My life has been on the line since August 2004.”
“Over all the world, He is the Life of the World, O Nanak, like water mingled with water.”
“Asleep in the darkness of the night, how shall she pass her life-night without her Husband? Her limbs shall burn, her body shall burn, and her mind and wealth shall burn as well.”
“You're in the fishbowl. Every day of your life, you get a report card. You wake up at 6:30 in the morning and you get your overnight ratings, and some days there are good days and some days there are bad days,”
“Practice truth, contentment and kindness; this is the most excellent way of life. One who is so blessed by the Formless Lord God renounces selfishness, and becomes the dust of all.”
“What I'm doing is putting my life in jeopardy (by testifying).”
“You are wasting this life in the pride of wealth and the splendor of beauty.”
“To act without understanding is to lose the treasure of this human life.”
“Not only do they learn character development, but they learn basic life skills. We also teach them job skills. We try to instill in them the need to stay employed.”
“Because a model is in many ways just a beautiful image, the personal life has historically not been that important.”
“More people means more revenues for the city, but it does impact on residents' quality of life.”
“I've been in this for 25 years, and I've never been so confused in my life. These skaters are great skaters. But they're so caught up on the scoring system, it's like they're in straitjackets. They can't be themselves. The art and beauty are gone. They don't have the freedom to express themselves.”
“There is a lot to life, and a lot more than just television to life.”
“Teen girls are figuring out what they want out of life and who they want to be. Combine this new responsibility with all the stress and pressures in their lives and the result, unfortunately, can be substance abuse.”
“Our quality of life is taking a beating. We're going to lose people and lose businesses if we don't work on improving the area.”
“We plan to have an awards ceremony during our walk for life. The competition is fierce, and this is a great opportunity for the community to come together, get healthy and lose a little weight along the way.”
“Jamie is my best friend and I look forward to spending the rest of my life with her.”
“One of the best moments of my life was when 'Dorian Blues' was playing across Times Square from 'The Lion King,' ... I felt like a big rap star.”
“I want them to see that there is life after tragedy, after nefarious notoriety, and see that you can hold your head up.”
“They've had a strategic setback. Their old growth model seems to have fallen by the wayside because life science has fallen by the wayside. They haven't come up with a great strategy.”
“There are a lot of brilliant people in all walks of life. That doesn't make you a manager of people. Our jobs are about managing people, crisis management on a daily basis. If you don't have people skills or the experience, things can snowball.”
“It's interesting how it completely changes your life because you can never get your privacy back. Your anonymity is gone.”
“For my whole life in school.”
“It is not a life at all. It is a reticence, in three volumes.”
“While the drugs can improve the quality of life and may slow the progression for a short period of time, it won't be sustained. Nothing pushes back the disease.”
“I'm hoping he gets life for the brutal way he murdered my daughter. He needs to do the time for the crime and then he can be rehabilitated after that in the next life.”
“I've always felt (acting) is the one thing I've done in my life that doesn't feel like work. Some people like to draw. Some people like to paint. My greatest satisfaction is performing in front of a crowd.”
“It's a miserable life in Hollywood. You're up at five or six o'clock in the morning to be ready to start shooting at nine.”
“He's got goals in life. Being that he had a hard upbringing, I think that's prepared him for life, to live better and to experience a lot more. He does have his head on straight.”
“We're really concerned about it. We think it could ultimately cut our mine life short and make it impossible for us to make any modifications to our permit.”
“When we made the movie, we never thought it would have another life of its own down the line. I was just doing a job. Who knew we'd still be talking about 'Creature' over 50 years later?”
“In the game of life it's a good idea to have a few early losses, which relieves you of the pressure of trying to maintain an undefeated season.”
“He has his life back and his good name back. It's a Greek tragedy with a happy ending.”
“He just felt something, he's a fit lad and I don't think he's ever pulled a muscle in his life, so he was a little bit shocked about it.”
“It's important to recognize the memory of Connor and to endow his scholarship. There are things in life that are bigger than sports and this is one of those things. We are pleased that our organization is able to honor his memory, Ohio State and soccer.”
“The little unremembered acts of kindness and love are the best parts of a person's life.”
“There comes a time in the seeker's life when he discovers that he is at once the lover and the beloved.”
“I've had people come here and say to me, 'I'm shocked; I've lived in Brevard my whole life, and never knew you were here,' ”
“O Silence! are Man's noisy years
No more than moments of thy life?”
“Nobody could ever tell Pepper anything. Jasmine was her life.”
“She's just trying to move on with her life.”
“Man,it seemed,had been created to jab the life out of Germans.”
“So was it when my life began;
So is it now I am a man;
So be it when I shall grow old,
Or let me die!”
“The thing I love most about that movie is that in every fighter's life there is a saga to tell. Everything from heartbreak to joy. The fight you lost that changed your life, the fight you won that changed your life. The job you lost. The girlfriend that broke up with you. Behind every fighter there is a life like that.”
“I felt the mitigating circumstances in this case warranted the life sentence in this case versus a death sentence.”
“That happened because we have such great fans. And the other thing, things happen in life. You got fired from a job. You lose a game. You just have to fight through it.”
“Even though they used our life as fodder, it's still exciting to see that it is a well-crafted show.”
“It's hard enough with the conveniences of modern life, ... But to be here, with no electricity, no water, not even a floor, I don't understand how she can take care of him.”
“The rule of thumb is that aircraft are built for a 20-year economic life. That doesn't mean they fall out of the sky after 20 years. But it does mean they need tender loving care.”
“Securities firms that sell variable life insurance products must ensure that they are appropriate for particular investors and that brokers do not mislead their customers about the nature of these products,”
“It is a market we know very well...the margins in life insurance in Hong Kong remain very attractive. It will enable us, if we integrate it well, to create significant value.”
“You just don't take someone's life like that because God only gives life, you don't take life.”
“It's been dominating my life for the last year and a half.”
“The policy of the department is unchanged, and it is to support the preservation of life by appropriate clinical means and to do that in a humane manner.”
“I felt my own life experience could be helpful to other people, not only because of the death of my son, although there is so much about that,”
“I want the poetry back in my life.”
“She's just come to life. Just watching her personality come out and how loving and sweet she is. It's just amazing.”
“Just because someone's convicted of a large fraud, you don't have to give him a life sentence. White collar crimes are deterred by even short sentences. White collar people don't need to see a 65-year-old get 25 years to be deterred.”
“Fashion is a tool . . . to compete in life outside the home. People like you better, without knowing why, because people always react well to a person they like the looks of.”
“I realized I wanted more, I wanted my life back. It gave me my health.”
“It is the policy of the department to preserve life through lawful, clinical means.”
“It is so important not only as students, but individuals to learn about other cultures. Diversity in life broadens all of our experiences. My hope for this weekend is that people can an understanding of how far minorities have come and learn from the past as we move forward.”
“The human race is intoxicated with narrow victories, for life is a string of them like pearls that hit the floor when the rope breaks, and roll away in perfection and anarchy.”
“I am going to get some help and get my life straightened out.”
“I've had many lovers and still have romances. I am very spoiled. All my life, I've had too many admirers.”
“Imagine the life of a brilliant man who can inspire others but do nothing for himself. This disease has already put him in jail.”
“It was just devastating. I've never encountered anything like it in my life. It just kept rising and rising and rising.”
“The half-life of the memory of a flood is very short. You can already hear it in Washington, D.C.: New Orleans where?”
“[That, in part, is why the Constitution's framers gave justices life tenure — to enable them to rule wherever the law and the Constitution led them, without obligation or fear of political reprisal. Former Republican president Gerald Ford recently paid tribute to John Paul Stevens, his only appointee to the Supreme Court, who is also far more liberal than Republicans expected.] He has served his nation well, ... with dignity, intellect and without partisan political concerns.”
“Its not easy to move on from something that has been such a part of my life all these years, but it just feels like the right time for me, ... I will continue to work closely with Daylight on a consulting basis, but I am confident that I leave Daylights valued customers in great hands with Tim and the best executive team you could ask for.”
“It's a comment on our society, on the fragmentation of American family life. We have to bear that this is happening in America, where there is freedom of choice. These women are not converting in order to go and live in Saudi Arabia. We also don't know how permanent these conversions are in a country where people convert two or three times in their lives.”
“Ricky has been in the best behavioral mode of his life. He didn't work this hard to get back only to let that happen.”
“Where there is life there is wishful thinking.”
“As we had no part of our will on our entrance into this life, we should not presume to any on our leaving it, but soberly learn to will which He wills.”
“I'll remember his spirit and love for life. He was fun-loving and energetic, and will be missed.”
“Telling a teen-ager the facts of life is like giving a fish a bath.”
“I did not urge or encourage any reporter to investigate the private life of any member of Congress. Any suggestions otherwise are completely false.”
“I have nothing to hide from. Yeah, I messed up. I had a chance to change my life, and I did. I wish I never did what I did. But I felt going in there was the best thing that ever happened to me in every aspect of my life.”
“I love Utah State and everything, but I'm ready to see what is next for me in life. My situation is a little different than someone that is 21 or 22, so I'm ready to get out there in the real world and start working, start living life.”
“It was so life-changing,”
“It was the most dramatic and probably the most important period in his life, and it changed him radically in all sorts of ways,”
“We all feel very strongly that Elian's life will be destroyed if he is sent to the custody of Fidel Castro in Cuba. That's what this is about, protecting this child from harm.”
“I can overcome adversity with God in my life.”
“We're old. We should be enjoying life.”
“Life for the European is a career; for the American it is a hazard”
“He had very good taste. He always said he'd never done anything in his life, but this house is his memorial.”
“Life has dealt me a poor hand lately and this is the final blow. I've lost everything and I am not sure what's left to live for.”
“We hope to see some real signs of the rotation coming to life in the last month. Or, inevitably, you're going to have to make a decision.”
“I try in my life to follow my heart in terms of what moves me and what is important to me. I know what it feels like to do things that are soul-decaying, and a lot of the large aspects of life in Hollywood, in the stereotypical way, I find unbelievably soul-decaying, and I choose, albeit frustratingly to other people in my life, not to expose myself to too much of that.”
“She was very inspirational both as a professional and in her personal life.”
“The objects of the present life fill the human eye with a false magnification because of their immediacy.”
“Things like this just bring to the forefront how hard life is sometimes,”
“Scooter is the most methodical, detail-oriented and comprehensive worker of anybody I've ever worked with in my life.”
“I don't know that he ever lifted a weight in his life before he got to college. He had developed things naturally: when to strike a blow, when to tense his body up. He was just relentless when it came to blocking.”
“It puts things in perspective. We're just playing a basketball game. What those people experienced is real life.”
“There's an old saying that the only sure things in life are death and taxes. Well, in its never-ending appetite for more of your hard-earned income, the government has not only embraced that old saying, it's taken it a step further. Under the current tax code, Uncle Sam treats death as another chance to raid your savings, taking money that should go to your family and loved ones.”
“This is the most powerful movie I've ever seen in my life,”
“I've been racing something all my life, whether it's been a bicycle skis, motorcycles or cars. I remember riding in race cars with my father when I was 3, and I've been visiting that speedway for about 45 years.”
“Art is longer than life.”
“Cultivate more joy by arranging your life so that more joy will be likely.”
“Ah! how ugly Life can be
After Love from it is lopped!”
“We want a school with a peaceful, pastoral setting that is all about school without the distractions of urban life.”
“Wasn't that the weirdest thing you've ever seen in your life?”
“Within two minutes of his heart stopping he was administered the life-saving care that he desperately needed. The quick actions of Mike Meyer, the emergency responders and the Vanderbilt health care providers saved this young man's life.”
“In my dream, the eagle was showing me how life for Native Americans used to be and some things that Native people should do to be healthy once again.”
“We had a hard life, but we stuck together. We worked together.”
“I sing the hymn of the conquered, who fell in the Battle of Life,
The hymn of the wounded, the beaten, who died overwhelmed in the strife.”
“our federal government failed these individuals in life.”
“Fifty years ago, everyone read a few general-interest publications such as the Saturday Evening Post and Life magazine. Today, there's an explosion of specialty publications. People are doing what they are interested in. If they're interested in working with children, they work with the Boy Scouts.”
“It can save your life, not just keep you out of prison. It can literally save your life.”
“Why should I admire somebody for his ability to manipulate me? In other realms of life, this talent is known as demagoguery.”
“In every aspect of life, including the economic dimension, we are always challenged to do the right thing. In many cases in the market system, which allows a great deal of latitude for human choice, people can get carried away to excess.”
“It's an awesome idea. For them to bring it back to Mid-City shows people that there is life in Mid-City, and I think it's going to be the new place to be.”
“[She said the book that changed her life was] Exodus ... a sense of identification.”
“He was an educator for most of his life. ... That's the way he approached being a Fed governor.”
“Life must be lived forward, but can only be understood backwards.”
“After experience taught me that all the ordinary
Surroundings of social life are futile and vain. . . .”
“Words can't express it. I was given a new chance at life. If it wasn't for the drug court program I'd be in prison.”
“That might have been the worst point of my life in baseball. I had never played with anybody but the Reds. We had gelled together and all of a sudden I got traded, kicked out of the house. It took a while to get over it.”
“I wouldn't be surprised if my life took a completely different turn in the next five years that would moot the 2006 New York governor's race.”
“What they're doing has happened throughout history. It's the natural life cycle of a conglomerate.”
“Well, I think if I had married a different woman I would of had a very different life. She was my partner both emotionally and intellectually. At work and at play and she brought up the 3 children that we have, brought them up to be well behaved, modest and not over-bearing children.”
“[The intelligent-design textbook at the heart of the Dover case,] Of Pandas and People, ... The Design of Life: Discovering Signs of Intelligence in Biological Systems.”
“I take it one day at a time. I deal with life day by day. I wasn't living before, I was just existing.”
“Dave was world-renowned. He loved life and had an amazing, uplifting personality. The world lost a great person that day.”
“I've dealt with people (all) my life. I think I have good rapport with people. They know who I am and what I'm about. I think that the people trust me.”
“The kids have to realize you have those ups and downs. It's no different than life. The kids just had to believe they could regroup and they did.”
“Being involved with this big of an event was a terrific real life experience for the students and one they will not soon forget. The students realized the importance of the work they were doing and rose to the occasion.”
“That morning brought me back to life.”
“We're trying to show what everyday life was like.”
“Yevtushenko has written that 'A poet in Russia is more than a poet,' and throughout his life he has tried to justify this sentiment, ... The Order of Friendship Between Peoples.”
“It's just meant to sort of honor the person and remind us of the life we had together. It's sort of a happy moment as opposed to a sad time.”
“There are men in this courtroom who are walking around and breathing because Duke Cunningham put his life at risk. There is no doubt that all of the good that he did in those many years will be washed away.”
“It looks like execution. People with no value for human life murdering these men who to me look like farmers, workers, villagers. They certainly didn't deserve to die in circumstances like this.”
“What can you say about a guy who is going through the worst time of his life and still takes time out to deliver the news first hand?”
“These are songs that aren't afraid to tell the truth. They are exactly like a slice of life; you get the good, bad and the ugly. It is definitely honest music.”
“It's just one of those things. We can control many aspects of life, but we cannot control nature.”
“I want to see, that's all. This is my life. I want to see.”
“Through my optimism I naturally prefer and capture the beauty in life.”
“I never told him to proceed with a life documentary.”
“Light and life were extinguished. It was wrong. It was only the most dramatic recent example of why levels of tension, bitterness and frustration are so high,”
“The vehicles are replaced based on the useful life cycle of the equipment.”
“We try to embrace all cultures and different walks of life. To me, it was like enlightenment.”
“That's been my whole life, and I'm not going to change, ... There've been a lot of problems solved in that dining room over a bowl of gumbo. There will be a lot more.”
“This is life, you know. They're not princesses. I want my girls to know what the real world is like. I want my girls to be able to accept rejection gracefully.”
“Relief is finally coming for San Francisco pedestrians and bicyclists, ... The loss of human life and suffering caused by the staggering number of accidents along 19th Avenue clearly warrants this legislation.”
“The vehicles are replaced based on the useful life cycle of the equipment.”
“It was pretty exciting. All life experiences coming into one race. I'm comfortable with my result, I trust my coach and this is only a warm up experience.”
“He was always the life of the party. The manner in which he would tell a story with that strong southern accent was special to many people.”
“love of life and all beautiful things.”
“He had to be scared for his life.”
“It seemed that it was either 10 years or 40 years or life. It was one of those. That seemed to be the consensus of it.”
“There seemed to be a little bit more life, a little more enthusiasm. Guys were probably a lot more focused when we got on the ice.”
“Most of the things they've said have come true, ... It's probably like anything else in life, in that you can read a book or be told about what's coming, but you have to go through some of those things, have that life experience, to make the adjustments.”
“ADM understands the value of America's agricultural communities and is committed to enhancing the quality of life in the areas where we live and work. This program will encourage local leaders and ADM employees to identify projects for consideration that address specific community needs.”
“The spirit or life spark which animates this manifestation could be called God.”
“I love a live church. Sixty-two years old -- this gives me life.”
“I think that the core doctrines of Christianity-the incarnation, the resurrection, life after death-these are as strong as ever. In fact, the belief in life after death has increased in this century.”
“It shows a new example of independent evolutionary adaptation in the frogs for life in habitats filled with loud background noise.”
“I'm really just trying to hash out the next two weeks of my life, ... So, something that is potentially four months down the road is not just a mile down the road for me, it's a million miles down the road.”
“I love doing this. It's the most fun of anything I've ever done in my life.”
“We call on every French person and every person who values life to demonstrate against the headscarf law,”
“Pure was thy life; its bloody close
Hath placed thee with the sons of light,
Among the noble host of those
Who perished in the cause of Right.”
“I can't remember a time in my life where I haven't been aware of discrimination against women and the inequalities that exist. This is a battle that needs to be fought.”
“This is the best day of my life. It's better than prom. It's better than anything in high school. It's better than getting accepted into college.”
“And we wept that one so lovely should have a life so brief. . . .”
“As the Internet becomes more tightly woven into everyday life, an increasing number of consumers will desire the applications and services it can provide. Current online users want access to services in more locations and situations, while many other consumers desire Internet access without the inherent complexities of PCs.”
“We are enthusiastic about the potential of a long-term partnership with the Swiss Life Network. With the globalization of business today, an employee benefits provider must be able to offer solutions for employers with associates throughout the world. This new arrangement allows Fort Dearborn Life to provide products in the United States to Swiss Life Network's multi-national clients and in exchange, international solutions for Fort Dearborn Life customers.”
“If it was necessary to tolerate in other people everything that one permits oneself, life would be unbearable.”
“Childhood, with all its mirth,
Youth, Manhood, Age that draws us to the ground,
And last, Man's Life on earth,
Glide to thy dim dominions, and are bound.”
“I grew up in an upper-middle-class family. Street life is foreign to me. I'm not sure I'm going to get out of here alive.”
“She is so hurt and outraged. Her whole life has been turned upside down because of this. Law school is hard enough, but local and regional newspapers and radio stations have demoralized her.”
“These struggling tides of life that seem
In wayward, aimless course to tend,
Are eddies of the mighty stream
That rolls to its appointed end.”
“This'll be great for the boy or girl who wins. They could be larger than life looking back on this one day as something that got them started. It's a great idea.”
“It's been a life-long dream for me. But I wouldn't rule hockey out.”
“I could easily be in different situations. I'm healthy. My personal life is wonderful. I attribute a lot of my happiness to my wife. We have discussions on what goes on here and on everything else. We always take the positives out of things.”
“I knew his life deserved a chance/But everybody told me to be smart/Look at your career they said/'Lauren, baby use your head'/But instead I chose to use my heart.”
“Ah! never shall the land forget
How gushed the life-blood of her brave --
Gushed, warm with hope and courage yet,
Upon the soil they fought to save.”
“Life is very interesting if you make mistakes.”
“In my life as an artist, I follow what I call my 'inner directive' because you can never predict what the world is going to do. You can never predict how people are going to respond to what you do. What I have to do is just trust what's sending me down a road of creative inquiry is important to me and somehow that will make it into a piece of work that is important to others.”
“I'm not gonna lie and say it's easy. I separate my work and my personal life. Work is work.”
“Joe Mansour put his life at risk and made enormous financial sacrifices for his country. I hope that in the end the system that until now has failed him will set circumstances right.”
“A writer should be joyous, an optimist... Anything that implies rejection of life is wrong for a writer.”
“It's just one of those ironies of life that he'd be called as a juror.”
“To scatter Roman darkness by this light
The loss of land and life I'll reckon slight.”
“But our waking life, and our growing years, were for the most part spent in the kitchen, and until we married, or ran away, it was the common room we shared.”
“There's nothing tough in this life, only if you make it.”
“There was no physical contact with Deborah's daughter but she was put in fear for her life.”
“He believed in his soldiers, and, in the true spirit of his profession, gave his life protecting his men. He was a true hero.”
“He had the run of his life. Smooth and big, with landings that were on the money.”
“This whole thing is taking on a life of its own. I talked to [elected officials] over in Queens, and they're loving this, because they feel like the circumstances are driving the Jets over there.”
“It's that time in your life when you literally don't know if what you're going to do is going to work or not, what your future is, if you're going to make it.”
“I know what kind of healing (art) brought to my own life. To see their family come out here and really get into it and be creative ... It was really a neat experience.”
“I had the two biggest free throws of my life, and, you know, I tied the game. We have run that play before and it worked. We got what we wanted.”
“I have some pretty mixed feelings about ending my tenure here. I've had as enjoyable a life as anybody could have. Teaching and horses are my passion. Combining them makes me a lucky person.”
“Existence is a strange bargain. Life owes us little; we owe it everything. The only true happiness comes from squandering ourselves for a purpose.”
“There was no physical contact with Deborah's daughter, but she was put in fear for her life.”
“This is a very family oriented event. There will be people from all walks of life.”
“But we know that the very God who gave us life, gave us liberty at the same time. And sometimes we're called upon to defend both life and liberty - God's blessings to Americans, and indeed, to all of His creation.”
“I never received a little pleasure from anything in my life; if I am pleased, it is in the extreme.”
“Her whole life has been in prosecution, in the field of criminal justice that she knows and likes. It makes sense for her to run for A.G. It's not too late. Many New Yorkers have not read or heard about her problems running for Senate.”
“reading is one of those things you can do your whole life.”
“Men deal with life as children with their play,
Who first misuse, then cast their toys away.”
“We've rescued Tillie from a life of crime and we hope to rehabilitate her so she can be a contributing dummy to our society.”
“He'll never be here for me to grow old with. He was my life. He was my love. He was my heart and soul. Never did I think that at the age of 31 I'd be a widow.”
“We're focusing on life-safety issue. But at the same time this could be an annoying problem. We get complaints about blocking the road and about the debris on sites.”
“President Clinton is one of the dominant figures on the global stage. He has lived an extraordinary life, and he has a great story to tell.”
“Faults in the life breed errors in the brain,
And these, reciprocally, those again.”
“[But the novel also offers a singular insight into Brando's fantasy life.] It's more than just a curiosity, ... Look at the central character. You can see Brando in it.”
“The pride of life hath corrupted the judgment of others, and perverted them in the way of religion.”
“What is it but a map of busy life,
Its fluctuations, and its vast concerns?”
“It was the worst moment of my life,”
“Being bodacious is having the courage to be in charge of your life. A Bodacious Woman is this century?s Wonder Woman.”
“What is it but a map of busy life,
Its fluctuations, and its vast concerns?”
“If the memorial fails to convey how we as Americans value the loss of life, if it fails to tell the story to those who visit 100 years from now, then we as a nation have failed.”
“The obsessions we have are pretty much the same our whole lives. Mine are people, the human condition, life.”
“This was life-and-death for them, ... They had to make some moves to make this thing profitable.”
“A life of ease is a difficult pursuit.”
“You could tell what he really wanted to do in life. Deep down, he really wanted to do it. He wanted to see how far he could push himself.”
“You're not putting your life on the line to save the people of the village, ... I am.”
“We're bringing the Sun Maiden to life.”
“It's not that parents don't care. It's the reality of life in a 24-hour town.”
“The basic idea is to present life learning programs that are beneficial to everyone in the community. Many of the subjects are suggested by people who have already been here for classes and others who want to expand their horizons. We try to meet those needs with instructors who are well versed and experienced in the topics.”
“The prime minister can die tonight. The prime minister can go back to normal, relatively normal, life in six months. We can't forecast what will be tomorrow.”
“Sharon's present condition is serious, stable, and critical. There is no immediate threat to his life.”
“Some blood, missing teeth and maybe some broken arms, but no life threatening injuries.”
“Sharon was in a life-threatening situation because of intestinal damage and as result doctors decided to operate.”
“I'm not leaving the field but I've learned that in life you either diminish or you grow and I chose to grow. I really believe voters will choose a candidate that represents competency, character and commitment and this shows commitment.”
“In the morning, there was really immediate danger to his life, but now . . . (there is) no immediate danger.”
“Our mission at Theater League is to enhance the quality of life in the communities we serve with the thrill of live theatre. We believe that introducing Kansas City audiences to new, fresh musical theatre productions is an important part of this mission. And by giving these new pieces a chance to be enjoyed, we plan to also offer new talent and new ideas the opportunity to grow and thrive. We are energized by the possibilities this exciting venture offers.”
“Maybe it is time for the Palestinians to build their own economic life without leaning on Israel.”
“I'm a strong Liberal. I've voted Liberal all my life. I probably will again. But not this time. It's time for a change.”
“We have a life-long history in the fire department and this is a good chance for him and I to get a little closer together and show what each of us can do,”
“Let her go on with her life, ... And I'll go on with mine.”
“I appreciate your help, you have a friend for life, doc.”
“Any time you can get in an automobile and drink and drive and take an innocent life, the laws need to be changed. The laws need to be changed.”
“Life could be very, very different if we get hit by a major hurricane.”
“We used to have kids brought here through a church, refugees with life-and-death stories.”
“This amendment would bar the legal recognition for civil unions, domestic partnerships or life partnerships. This non-recognition would extend to opposite sex couples as well as same-sex couples.”
“...a disgruntled reflection on my own life as a sort of desperate improvisation in which I was constantly trying to make something coherent from conflicting elements to fit rapidly changing settings.”
“With one solitary rose, we say 'yes' to life and 'no' to senseless, violent murders.”
“Of course. Is that a stain on the rug? I'll get it. It's my life, and that's my purpose, that stain. Imagine.”
“For the past 10 years I have spent nearly half my life here.”
“He was distraught enough to the point he took his own life.”
“I was so overwhelmed I started to cry. It felt good knowing I had so many people in my life who support me.”
“The Baby Boomers really had a unique experience with sexual freedom ... They've enjoyed a good sex life. Why would they want to give that up?”
“I gave her life, I can take life away.”
“This has been the hardest thing I've ever had to do my entire life.”
“This guy is looking at life in prison,”
“You're some special kind of hostage, that's for sure. Maybe, well, do you think my purpose in life is to give myself up to the police? Do you think God wants me to spend the rest of my life paying for my sins?”
“Basically his desire now is to make the best of the rest of his life.”
“Everyone knows these brands and has an association with them. They're part of everyday life.”
“It's a fundamental part of keeping us on our life path.”
“I see my purpose in life as making the world a happier place to be in .”
“The words 'respect for private and family life, privacy of the home' as innocuous sounding as they are, can be interpreted to allow for adult homosexual conduct in private.”
“The purity of Jewish upbringing is the restrictions that one carries through life being a "nice Jewish girl" -- what a burden!”
“The only laugh that man will ever get in his life is by stripping and showing off his shortcomings.”
“Our first and gravest priority is simply to ensure that no other Marine is asked to give his life until this aircraft is safe and until it is determined to be ready for the Marine Corps' mission,”
“There are few things in life more difficult than seeing a loved one go off to war. Here, in Idaho, a mom named Tammy Pruett... knows that feeling six times over,”
“We have improved the quality of life for so many people.”
“Realities of life for happy and unhappy people are basically the same.”
“We're praying for a fast recovery and that everything will be back to normal. There's a lot of life after football.”
“For me, this started as a mid-life crisis - as kind of a dare.”
“It is time to recognize a simple fact of life, ... Contrary to what some of my colleagues seem to believe, tax cuts do not pay for themselves.”
“Uncertainty and expectation are the joys of life.”
“I was never in the hospital in Halifax in my life, ... He has no medical record, nothing, no evidence. I could prove that I was never in the hospital.”
“I've got no timetable. I'm sort of sick of timetables, to be honest. I just want to live my life a little freely and not adhere to any schedule - just make music and have fun.”
“We're looking at getting some extra life out of them in a productive way by providing them to students.”
“There are ten or twenty basic truths, and life is the process of discovering them over and over and over.”
“[It's just the way Palmer goes about life. At a golf tournament, he and Lewis were playing with a corporate chief executive. The man marveled at Palmer's natural abilities.] I see it every day, ... But you would never know he is so good at everything. He just shows up, performs great and sort of slips out the door.”
“Health and fitness is the first-line approach to avoiding debilitating and even life-threatening complications that come with overweight, such as diabetes, heart disease, high blood pressure,?;stroke and joint problems. Imagine walking into the doctor's office and being told you have diabetes. Why go there?”
“I've wanted to be in the winner's circle all my life. I'm so excited about this. I'm looking for big things to happen.”
“I've never seen anything so awesome in my whole life. It is absolutely gorgeous. Beyond everybody's expectations. You'll never get a true perspective of that golf course by watching the TV.”
“My kids idea of a hard life is to live in a house with only one phone.”
“It is a great fun. Life is really going great for me.”
“They are the constants of life, at the core of life, along with nice little delights that come along every now and then . . . we all have them.”
“Security is not the meaning of my life. Great opportunities are worth the risk.”
“Even in real life, I'd rather hang out with guys”
“If you play it safe in life you've decided that you don't want to grow any more.”
“Beloved, till life can charm no more; And mourned, till Pity's self be dead”
“That was a game-changing, life-changing play.”
“I helped deliver the baby and everything. That was probably the most exciting moment of my life, ... This is a somewhat-close second.”
“We chose the workshop on Greek life because it plays into the hands of how Greek houses are trying to earn more respect on campus. We feel this will be a way to help with that by having the Greek leaders get some advice from Miller on how to improve their image.”
“Avoiding danger is no safer in the long run than outright exposure. Life is either a daring adventure or nothing at all.”
“If you play it safe in life, you've decided that you don't want to grow anymore.”
“Kelly's a guy who doesn't rush through life. He's a guy who really enjoys his family and it's the most important thing to him. But he also works extremely hard. Every morning he's already here and I come in at 6:45. It's just nice to see him get this chance.”
“Being an inventor, I chose the career side of my life instead of the personal side. I have a lot of resentment over that because I'm not married and don't have any children. That may be my next project. But if I had a family, I probably wouldn't have taken the risk to develop the Aura.”
“There were a lot of facets of my life that were just on the back burner.”
“You have these periods when there's a major civic crisis that redefines civic life,”
“I helped deliver the baby and everything. That was probably the most exciting moment of my life, ... This is a somewhat close second.”
“To me the truth is such an essential element in spiritual life, ... It's not only respected, it's sought for . . . Maybe I was feeling a little naïve, but I just expected more from priests and rabbis and religious-based organizations in their consideration of this case.”
“Rock 'n' roll is a business, ... Rock 'n' roll is a way of life. It's nice to think of it as a guitar-smashing party all the time, but the truth of the matter is, it's a serious family and business for INXS, in that order.”
“Her life made a difference in the freedoms that we enjoy in America today,”
“Clearly the survey demonstrates the large gap between what students know and learn from life experiences and the need on the part of adults to find the right combination that will make financial literacy meaningful to young adults leaving the safety of high school.”
“Anything below a B-, for my whole life has been unacceptable.”
“Spare all I have, and take my life”
“You need to help each other and you can't live a life of God or anything without helping each other.”
“This isn't just baseball out here. It's life. Coach Savage eats it, drinks it, sleeps it. And that's what is so great about being a part of this.”
“I was thrilled. I'd gotten to a point in my life where I wanted to make a difference and give back in a way. Karen and I decided we wanted to try and raise awareness of spaying and neutering and the overpopulation problem. It just happened.”
“June of '85, changed life for the better.”
“That allows me to put things in perspective, knowing I've got some priorities in my life. At the top is my relationship with God, and then my relationship with my wife and kids, and football's down there around three or four. Knowing that helps me be a good football player.”
“Anglo-Saxon America dealt with the emotional aspects of life by hiding them, ignoring them, or defining them as problematic. Janis rebelled against those habits, yet there was no guidance beyond the rambling of Kerouac's novels. Releasing one's feelings from years of bondage was a righteous and dangerous experiment.”
“We're seeing people from all walks of life -- those who didn't have resources before the storm and those who are affluent. For all of them, it's difficult to not have a car, to have no job available, to have no normalcy in their life.”
“I've lived with this stuff my entire life.”
“It was a feeling I've never felt in my life. We've wanted this for the last three years.”
“It is one of the saddest moments of my life. Now, another great African-American leader is gone.”
“I have never been convinced throughout my life that one needs to be imitating others.”
“At that point, you could just see the life coming back into our bodies.”
“sincere attempt to take his life.”
“The novel aspect is that it's about everyday life in a time of great historical import.”
“I've wanted to do this like my whole life, since I started playing basketball. The seniors on this team have planned for this for four years. It's exciting.”
“I love the idea that Blake came out of my body when his life began and that part of him is going back into my body with his death. I do feel closer. And I put it on my left ankle so I would always remember to choose the left.”
“It's heavy, but also it's sort of the philosophy of Hospice that it's not about death. It's about life. When you're able to confront the realities of death, you're able to live life as long as you can.”
“I've always wanted to write. I've, you might want to say, dabbled in writing my whole life. I've always sort of kept my hand in it. I've always enjoyed writing,”
“I think they've taken everything I've ever owned in my entire life. I think they've just stolen it.”
“The ocean can give life and easily take life. It was important for me, personally, to have some closure.”
“Many of these ships still have 20 or 30 years of life left in them and can accommodate several hundred passengers in great comfort. We will take a retired cruise ship and convert every two to three cabins into luxury suites and sell them to investors.”
“The school of life embodies a compulsory education that no man escapes”
“Agitation is that part of our intellectual life where vitality results; there ideas are born, breed and bring forth”
“Draft picks today are your currency, your life blood. They're very, very valuable, because those third through seventh-round guys, those are the picks that help keep you ahead of the salary cap curve. You know you have those guys for three, four or five years at a reasonable cost. Especially anybody after the first round. That's why drafting in the cap era is even more important.”
“To feel that one has a place in life solves half the problems of contentment.”
“Is there not an art, a music, and a stream of words that shalt be life, the acknowledged voice of life?”
“I've done it all my life. That's the way it was presented to me and that's the way it should stay.”
“We're at the end of our shelf life for these roads. To fix a highway, you have to get on the highway.”
“If you have things right in your life
but do not know why,
you are just lucky, and you will not move
in the little ways that encourage good fortune.”
“We are committed to assisting the Republic of Guinea in its efforts to improve its citizens' quality of life by unlocking the country's most abundant and valuable natural resource. By collaborating with the ADF, who have been working in Guinea for more than 15 years and are deeply engaged in local communities throughout the country, we are ensuring that those Guineans directly impacted by our project, as well as those in the surrounding areas, are able to enhance the development of their communities and grow sustainable enterprises.”
“Lovely female shapes are terrible complicators of the difficulties and danger's of this earthly life, especially for their owner”
“It's an unbelievable chapter in his life and an unbelievable chapter in the NFL. To leave that, I think, is hard, but he's in the prime of his career.”
“This will possibly save a life.”
“That was the greatest disappointment for a man who had invested his whole life in this.”
“I'm looking forward to (today). It'll be a life-changing day for me.”
“You can kill a thousand; you can bring an end to life; you cannot kill an idea. (on the assassination of Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin)
”
“All right. I listen. My life sinks a little
farther, for the pity; from now on I know it
with them. We'll take a stand, wherever the end is.
We go forward by this quiet sharing,
they one way, I another. I am their promise:
no one else is going to know.”
“They will play more summer league ball than they have ever in their life and more than any Holly team has ever done in school history. I am excited about the future.”
“I'm having a vacation, and it's so beautiful, and maybe I'll never get another film idea in my life.”
“We are going to take steps...immediate, unconditional steps -- to facilitate the life of the people in the territories in every possible way.”
“If you tell a man what to do in real life, to which extent is it reality and to which extent are you in control?”
“distinguish between the people involved in terror and people who are trying to live their daily life.”
“We are committed to assisting the Republic of Guinea in its efforts to improve its citizens' quality of life by unlocking the country's most abundant and valuable natural resource. By collaborating with the ADF, who have been working in Guinea for the past 10 years and are deeply engaged in local communities throughout the country, we are ensuring that those Guineans directly impacted by our project, as well as those in the surrounding areas, are able to enhance the development of their communities and grow sustainable enterprises.”
“This is life in the Valley District. Every single night is a battle. We wanted to bring that energy from Saturday but realized that it was 0-0 at the start [of tonight?s game].”
“These were huge bombs, ... They were designed to cause maximum devastation and loss of life.”
“I feel like it's important to use this gift God gave me, my life and my career to do something to make the world a better place. It's an easy thing for me to do.”
“My life has been very good the last couple of years. I'm very comfortable, and this is really hard work,”
“[For them,] it's a control issue. I can't control the pain that people are bringing into my life, but I can control this.”
“They say (Fizzy Fruit) has about a 30-minute life expectancy, or fizzy expectancy.”
“I'm from Halls, I've been on that air base all my life. That's bull,”
“Ben was a joy to work with. He brought a lot of wisdom and a lot of life experience to the job. The two years that I worked with him have really been a joy. He is going to be horribly missed.”
“This was Shakespeare's form; who walked in every path of human life, felt every passion; and to all mankind doth now, will ever, that experience yield which his own genius only could acquire.”
“He was a man who changed who I am. You have so many people who impact your life. My mother impacted it as a kid and when it was time for me to grow up as a man, coach Meyer impacted me as a man. He taught me different things that are important in life.”
“Does art reflect life? In movies, yes. Because more than any other art form, films have been a mirror held up to society's porous face.”
“We haven't seen much impact on our foreign general or foreign life businesses, ... Some of our producers have been cautious placing business with some of our AIG subsidiaries.”
“A flat yield curve affected our spread business, and transaction volume in domestic life insurance & retirement services and capital markets was lower as a result of regulatory and related issues,”
“I'm close with the family. I've known Ben and his brothers all my life. He's a captain for a reason. He's taught me how to work hard and how to win. He deserves to win a state title.”
“We have every intention of using the 2006 elections to increase the number of pro-life seats in Congress and the number of pro-life women in politics.”
“Rock and Roll has no beginning and no end for it is the very pulse of life itself.”
“Life has no meaning in itself,but only in the meaning we give it. Like the clay in the artists hands, we may convert it into a divine form or merely into a vessel of temporary utility.
”
“I wasn't expecting this kind of golf this week. That's the best putting time in all my life.”
“This involves the destruction of human life in the name of scientific research. Missouri's basic moral compass is to err on the side of protecting human life. Missouri isn't California, and voters here won't support this.”
“Economically and politically, life is considerably better in Israel. It can't even be compared. There's a huge difference in quality of life.”
“It may be more important to concentrate on the essentials of life for those who are living than it is to focus on the treatment of those who are sick.”
“He is terrifying to those who aspire to have a normal life because ... if it could be done to the United States, it could be done to them.”
“She was bigger than life. Loved everybody. Never had a bad day. Never met a stranger. Would give you the shirt off her back and be happy to do it and ask you if you needed anything else. She didn't care whether you had a dime in your pocket or a million dollars, she treated you all the same.”
“Thanks to pricing and innovation in form factor and battery life, mobile PCs are appealing to a wider range of users.”
“He was in a troubled time of his life, and regular therapy wasn't working. So there was this spiritual psychiatrist that I took him to, and afterwards I said, 'Can I ask her? Can I talk to her?' So I said to her, 'Well, what do you think?' She said, 'Well, you know, he thinks he's an alien,'”
“[Childbirth isn't the only activity on Amber's agenda this season.] There is so much going on in Amber's life in this series, ... She's desperate to prove that Tanya is a scheming witch. She also launches her singing career and then gets into the idea of running Earls Park Football Club. So there's no stopping her!”
“If she gets life, she will still be in a single cell because she is a high-profile case.”
“Discovering I'm gay just sort of happened much later in life, ... Being intimate with [Alisa] or any other woman never entered my mind. At the same time, I'm a firm believer that when you fall in love with somebody, you can't control that.”
“Gay marriage has begun, and life has not changed for the citizens of the commonwealth, with the exception of those who can now marry, ... This amendment which was an appropriate measure or compromise a year ago, is no longer, I feel, a compromise today.”
“This is one of the greatest days of my life.”
“I was at a point in my life where I am just tired of having to pretend to be somebody I am not. I was basically living a lie. For the last seven, eight years, I was basically waiting to exhale.”
“I have to. I'd give everything I had for that not to have happened. Those little boys were my life.”
“It's not something that I want to throw in people's faces. I'm just at a point in my life where I'm tired of having to pretend to be somebody I'm not. I'm tired of having to hide my feelings about the person I care about. About the person I love.”
“I'm worried about him, that he's not going into the ocean. That's his whole life.”
“Our combination brings together two of most rapidly growing companies in life sciences.”
“I'm at a place in my life right now where I'm very happy, very content. I'm finally OK with the idea of who I love, who I want to be with,”
“We want seniors to realize that life can and does go on after visual impairment.”
“When the adulation of life is gone, the coward sneaks to his death, but the brave live on.”
“a great gift to give myself, to invest in my life, in all the things I wanted to do outside music.”
“Plays like that, we practice that a lot. Coach always talks about plays that take the life out of the other team. And that play right there, that's what it did.”
“When you add it all up, I've committed about 1.8 years of my life to reading books for the series. It's time to use all those hours in other ways.”
“Their life expectancy is 18 and they are normally in a (wheel) chair by the age of 5 or 6.”
“I've been fishing as a pro for 25 years, and never in my life have I had so much excitement. It's been such a roller coaster this last year. I've been way down, and I've been as high as you can get. This last year was one of the best I ever had. I won that big FLW tournament last year, finished in the top 10 in BASS and in the top 10 at FLW.”
“For the life of me, I can't understand why there wasn't a greater response sooner, ... We knew three or four days in advance that this was going to be a horrendous weather event; why didn't more action take place in advance?”
“Those who find beauty in all of nature will find themselves at one with the secrets of life itself.”
“We're hoping to get them for life, customers may well go on to buy more Fords, bigger Fords, so this is more than just profit and more than just a single transaction.”
“His life was very simple but those 100 years, he lived them to the full.”
“These girls' only life trajectory is marriage, and being a teacher is a pretty good job.”
“With the economy showing signs of life, the Fed easing cycle is probably at an end. We expect the Fed to hold steady.”
“Everybody is missing their families, their kids. They want to get back to normal life ? Taco Bell and speaking English.”
“Darling, face it, you just don't have a life!”
“For 35 years in his marriage and 30 years in his public service he has kept his private life fairly private. It's hard for him to do now, but he's going to hold on and try.”
“I'm most proud of the blessings that God has bestowed upon me, in my life. He's given me the vision to truly see that you can fall down, but you can still get back up. Hopefully I'll learn from my mistakes and have the opportunity to strengthen and improve the next thing I do.”
“Film allows you to see life differently, or see life you've never experienced, ... When it does that well and truthfully, because it can also lie to you, it's very powerful.”
“It's just things you need to take care of in life. I will always be singing. This won't be the last you hear of Mario Vazquez.”
“It's an intimate look at John's love for life. It's music for the eyes.”
“Research shows that if you can provide people with a safe environment where they can learn new life skills, they have a 75 percent chance of staying clean. If we have no place to send our clients in recovery, then we're setting them up for failure.”
“I think she knows she's gonna make it and we're gonna find her a home and make her life a whole lot better than what she's known.”
“The year that has gone by has been the longest in my life, at the same time it all seems like yesterday.”
“The building has served us well and has become the tangible center of Jewish life in The Woodlands. Our congregation has seen steady growth for over 20 years. However, we must expand physical capacity and make necessary repairs in order to ensure stability, accomplish both our short-term and strategic goals, and be poised to attract and absorb an ever-growing local population.”
“I've Got a Life,”
“Swimming is a life-long activity and it's one of the best all-around conditioning sports. I strongly encourage all of the athletes to continue swimming competitively after high school because ultimately I want them to be healthy.”
“The German government is working on getting the hostage out of danger. Our priority is to protect the life and integrity of the victim.”
“The life and physical integrity of the hostages has absolute priority. We hope that by tomorrow (Saturday) a solution will have been found.”
“To begin with, I wanted that truth to life to possess a concrete reliability, and rejoiced most when the poem seemed most direct, an upfront representation of the world it stood in for or stood up for or stood its ground against.”
“I'm feeling good. It's something I have to deal with for the rest of my life, but the medication takes care of that.”
“Moving away from home and on to college is a major life event. We've found that students want something inexpensive and readily accessible; parents want to be able to get money to their child quickly.”
“These would include a right to live life free from intimidation and destruction of property by opportunists, as well as the freedom to vote or campaign for political office.”
“You bet your life there's a renewed commitment.”
“He was extremely dedicated to the zoo. It was really his life.”
“This is insane. I can't compare this to anything in my life. This was crazy, but I knew we could do it.”
“I really absorbed that activist environment. That's the greatest way to grow up -- to live the life of every movement and help bring about justice in our lifetime.”
“That was the best game of my life.”
“So many of them just fall out of your life and you never see them again.”
“Being locked up is the best thing that ever happened to me. It really saved my life because death is the only other way out of this lifestyle.”
“At least we got chances. When you're not getting chances, that's really bad. We showed signs of life tonight.”
“It has reduced our handling costs by 70 percent and has opened up the independent managing general agent life channels that we could not previously support.”
“I don't care who or what judges me, nothing's going to stop me from living my life how I choose.”
“I think he's extremely lucky that those people, the person that pulled him off the bike saved his life. In the 30 seconds it took us to get turned around and back up there, that bike was fully involved and he would have been on that still, and he would have been dead now.”
“I'd like to write what life could be like, instead of what it is like. I guess I haven't figured out enough on how to live to the best of my abilities to be able to be metaphorical or use similes about this apparent reality called "life" around me.”
“She loved it. It was a big part of her life then.”
“After I had my son, I found life much funnier and brighter”
“We have all had someone whose life has been touched.”
“My friends, that's what I think about every day. That's why my life is good. It's not because I have a good car, because I don't. It's because every time I go out, someone awesome is there.”
“This is an effective way of handling the life insurance application process that was previously slow and expensive.”
“There was a news article on here before entitled ... and it had photos of him drinking orange juice. My life hasn't been the same since I saw those pictures..”
“Variety is alive and well. It has changed enormously over the years, with performers breathing new life into old acts. The opening of the national museum is a dream come true for us but the last thing we want it to be is a museum of variety. It is something that will go with variety into the future.”
“This is the epitome ... greek life and being a part of this great school.”
“You have to support the dignity of human life,”
“It's a skill that I worked all my life, and it's been taken away. That's kind of tough to take.”
“They're pretty standard life events. If people are familiar with triggers that provoke their anger, they are in a better place to do something different.”
“At each stage of life, insurance costs tend to go down - to the insurance companies, older and more experienced drivers are safer drivers. By switching back and forth between English and Spanish while filling out the application, the customer can compare terms with those on their existing policy, and be sure they have the right coverage.”
“We all agree that Mr. Chance tragically lost his life during a robbery. After that, the conclusions drawn by the state are utterly disparate from the conclusions we will draw.”
“Diabetes can slow you down, ... It can make your life different. But it doesn't have to stop you. If you take good care of yourself, you can have dreams and aspirations.”
“She knows this is her life. She accepts it. It's almost her mission in life to touch others.”
“Diabetes can slow you down. It can make your life different. But it doesn't have to stop you.”
“It was just the strangest thing I had ever seen in my life. The prices looked as though you'd get an entire meal, possibly even soup or salad. But when the food came, it looked like I could've gotten more bang for my buck with a Happy Meal. I couldn't help but laugh when the waitress asked if there was anything else she could get me.”
“Improvements in the quality of sexual life were directly related to weight loss and seemed to reach their maximum at about 12 percent weight loss.”
“In the broadest terms it is, like much literature, about life and death.”
“They are full of life on stage. It's just a very dynamic show.”
“I was headed for a life as an English professor but that just wasn't me.”
“The first goal we scored was huge. Once we got the first goal we had life. We believed we were going to win that game. Most of these girls are veterans and every year we have been through overtime.”
“Anything that goes beyond just a large gathering -- such as using small groups to create a congregational life with their members, that's a significant shift in the organization of a Catholic congregation.”
“We want to do something for someone who has taken care of others her whole life.”
“Many of the rescued passengers were wearing life vests ... It is most likely the ship sank after being slammed by very strong waves due to bad weather.”
“Anything that goes beyond just a large gathering -- such as using small groups to create a congregational life with their members -- that's a significant shift in the organization of a Catholic congregation.”
“Anything that goes beyond just a large gathering, such as using small groups to create a congregational life with their members, that's a significant shift in the organization of a Catholic congregation.”
“My relationship with my father was the most central relationship of my life from the time I was zero to 30,”
“As you sort of go through life, you realize it's very rare to have a relationship as an actor with a director like I have with John,”
“In past experiments, meddling with this versatile pathway to exploit its beneficial effects on aging and life span inevitably invited a host of problems.”
“I write about everything in life. Whether it be things that plague us in the world today or what's on the front page of the newspaper or even love, it all comes down to what inspires you.”
“We try to celebrate his life and what he did and not focus on the price he paid.”
“I'm going to live my dream and live my life to the fullest. I can't wait to find some great artists locally.”
“There's nothing wrong with being totally up front. This is a serious and important conversation about life and responsibility. It's about helping them learn. It's a great opportunity for parents.”
“I must reclaim my good life and I must return to my good works.”
“When it's about life and death, soccer takes a back seat. She was a special girl, and my heart goes out to her family. She was a light and a force in the community.”
“My whole life is thrown up there in front of the camera, and I'm the last person who wants to watch me for 90 minutes, I'll tell you that. For people to say they love the movie or were inspired by the movie, it's such a compliment.”
“He shot people on TV, he shot people in the movies, but he never really shot people in real life, ... It freaked him out.”
“I cannot wait until after the appeal, ... It's the only way to reclaim my life.”
“Obviously the defendant is not a hit man, ... This is probably the first person he ever killed in his life.”
“I think [in the series] we captured a piece of that life. I was short and fat the first year and got the hell beat out of me. Then I was tall and skinny and got the hell beat out of me again.”
“Man, the cutting edge of terrestrial life, has no rational alternative but to expand the environmental and resource base beyond earth.”
“The ordinance generally prohibits unreasonable or excessive noise that could be detrimental to life, health, or safety as well as disturbance of the public peace.”
“That house was their life, and they were really thankful we were there.”
“Absolutely not. The only way of leaving is by the slab. You're in the mob for life.”
“I know that this is my opportunity in my life that I've been given and, if I mess it up, it's no one's fault but my own.”
“[The capability theory avoids such pitfalls because it insists that quality of life must take into account such incommensurable factors as access to education, quality of personal relationships, political freedom, etc.] The right question to ask seemed to us to be: what are people actually able to do and to be? ... And we look at capabilities rather than actual functioning because we think it's the opportunities that are important. People should be free to choose which ones to use.”
“The first thoughts in my head were, 'Are we ready to see the very worst life can throw at us?'”
“We will ask that he serve the 10 to life and the five to 18 after that sentence. And then he would be eligible for parole. We wanted to have the additional time added to the sentence he already served.”
“Life is all about facing new challenges.”
“We had good life from start to finish, and we played very good defense with the exception of a handful of possessions. That allowed us to get out and get our running game going, and get some good looks in transition; and we shot the ball well tonight.”
“It was the best four years of my life. I definitely learned a lot both on-and-off the ice.”
“the instrument by which the dance expresses itself is also the instrument by which life is lived: the human body.”
“We're going to get a much longer life span out of them. We're doing them with stucco and concrete foundations.”
“I cannot understand for the life of me why DOE is going forward with this licensing procedure when we do not know whether or not the scientific documentation upon which you are basing your decisions is, in fact, flawed.”
“When you have a kid, your life is basically over for a few months.”
“His doctor told us that Noah would be an absolute vegetable for life. Noah has proved her to be wrong many times over.”
“I've reached a time in my life where I want to give something back to this community. Also I have four sons who I want to have opportunities to grow up and stay in the county if they choose to.”
“You never leave the mob. Sometimes you're wishing you'd never gotten into it, when there's a contract on your life or you're going to jail. But you never leave.”
“What they're doing is presenting real-life situations they've come across in their professions. They're sharing professional examples of both ethical and unethical behavior they have experience with.”
“If you're in your 20s, then you can be pretty aggressive, ... But if you're in the stage of life where you don't have many earning years left, there's a lot to commend in this portfolio.”
“We were part of that era that said the establishment and giving away your life to spend 40 years on an assembly line is not OK. But it took us a while to figure out what to do if we're not depending on the establishment.”
“People have different paths in life. Quincy's led him to a different place. What really matters is how you play.”
“People have different paths in life. Quincy's led him to a different place. What matters is how you play.”
“He's having a great year. He's a goal scorer. He's been that way all his life.”
“Each person's life is a story that is telling itself in the living.”
“We're in the analog business, and analog is what's driving all the displays, and audio, and battery life in wireless. Wireless is clearly our biggest segment, and we plan on this market doing exactly what it's been doing for the last three and a half years.”
“NONMEM simulations are at the heart of most critical processes within the pharmaceutical and life sciences industries, where ensuring fast, accurate and affordable decision-making is a top-of-mind issue. ACCELLERANT for NONMEM responds to these challenges, allowing organizations to take full advantage of parallel and distributed computing for run time reduction and improved precision - without the need for costly and time-consuming application changes.”
“In order to represent life on the stage, we must rub elbows with life, live ourselves.”
“It changed my life in an extreme way. I don't know if you could calculate just how much it does [change your life]. There was so much notoriety for me in my first season, and to finish by winning the Super Bowl and get the MVP set my place in history. It cements it and it's very special. There is something that comes with it, something everyone recognizes and knows. No one can ever take it away from you.”
“[W]hen you leave school finally you will find that life is a game, sometimes serious, sometimes fun, but a game that must be played with true team-spirit . . .”
“It has made a big impact on my perspective on life and on our culture. When you see a place like that -- Sudan isn't even a Third World country -- there is no power, no roads, no water. They've lived through cholera, malaria and AIDS is a big problem. Everybody who goes on a mission is changed is in some way. You think you go to help others, but we grow and God changes our own hearts.”
“I wanted to make a record that was dirty and sexy and fun. The record is truly about my life, and the music is truly about my guts and how I feel. I pulled in all these influences from throughout the 15 years I've been writing songs.”
“He had good life on his ball. I think if you go around and talk to a bunch of hitters, they'll say they have a hard time picking the ball up. The ball gets on you. He's sneaky. He kept the ball down and moved it around and had good life on it.”
“He is an American who has spent his professional life battling against government control over one of the most private aspects our lives.”
“Having the saloon was more than a job for him, it was a good part of his life. He really enjoyed the visitors who wanted to know the history of Virginia City and Nevada.”
“It's a lifetime experience, something you've looked forward to your whole life. You're not sure if you want it to be over with, or if you want it to last forever.”
“This is the most historic election of our lifetime, and it is a life or death matter for the vulnerable people we represent. ... For that reason, we can't sacrifice their vulnerability for the efforts being made by Mr. Nader.”
“If he's in for life, he's safe. He can't abuse her. She is in control of the relationship.”
“The best I can figure out, this is the most loss of life we've had in a single weather event in one day.”
“Maybe I'll get a day job for the first time in my life.”
“She's doing good. She's at home right now, and we're just enjoying getting back to normal life.”
“You have to understand that although it's a game and it's my career and it's my life and it provides a living for me and my family, it's a business to the people who own it.”
“He was a big part of my life, still was a big part. He was a symbol of baseball in the late '80s and early '90s. He was somebody everybody wanted to be.”
“She just wants to get on with her life.”
“She has a protective eye. She's experienced a lot in her life and that intense protection is always in full operation.”
“It's been tough for him but I think what makes him tick is that he truly loves life and gets a kick out of getting other people to laugh, ... That's what makes him energetic. He's good to be around. It's been a tremendous experience for both of us.”
“Herbert's life integrated prayer, study, teaching and pastoral care, embodying his understanding of the priest as a man of God, a teacher and pastor.”
“It's been the best four years of my life. When I walked off the court that last time, I kept saying I can't believe it's over. It's one of the toughest things I've had to do.”
“At first, everybody was either surprised or curious, because we had a different interpretation of Jesus Christ's life, passion and resurrection.”
“Life as we knew it is passing away, and something new is emerging to take its place, ... The Gift of Change: Spiritual Guidance for a Radically New Life.”
“The day I met Coach Thomas, I knew he was going to change my life.”
“The Bible talks about spiritual warfare. In life you have to endure and go through things and fight through things. This is just a mirror image of life. That's why I love it so much.”
“Too much technology in a toy reduces time spent on developing social and character skills needed for life.”
“They're going to be fighting for their life, and we know that.”
“His fastball is above average in terms of life and velocity, he has a hard breaking ball and the changeup has become a solid third pitch. And when his command gets better and he's able to throw his pitches where he wants, he can be a really good all-around pitcher.”
“Best day of my life. I got my family here, helped me grow it all year, what else is there to say?”
“To find in ourselves what makes life worth living is risky business, for it means that once we know we must seek it. It also means that without it life will be valueless.”
“I couldn't put my arm around her and say it's going to be OK. Her life is over. It's not going to be OK.”
“The first weekend in September stands for the pure zest for life. A warm welcome to Berlin!”
“We are two people who met and fell in love because we have the same ideal. And all my life and all his life and our life together is just a big effort to try to create a dialogue between civilizations.”
“I have a constant reminder moving around in my belly telling me what a miracle my life is and what a miracle his life is.”
“It wasn't an easy choice. I really loved living in Israel. I had made my life for myself there and a life in basketball. Things were really on the rise for me there. It was just very hard to leave.”
“We are to introduce our people into the life of the Church, which is salvation, that they may grasp its meaning, its contents and purpose, to taste and see how good the Lord is.”
“Football is the love of my life. I would never say I don't want to play. Somebody could say that this game is meaningless. Who is it meaningless to? I guess people who are watching the game? Or the people who are playing it? It's definitely not meaningless to us.”
“Like most people, I gave little thought during my life to the scourge of child pornography. But, I now know we are fighting a losing battle. The predators are sophisticated in the use of computers and talented in the manipulation of children.”
“It doesn't bother me. It's getting us ready for real life. If I get a job where I have to wear a suit and I get fired because I don't wear one, that's stupid.”
“She's happy. She likes the life she's living. But gorillas do need companionship.”
“They are confident, masculine, stylish, and committed to uncompromising quality in all areas of life.”
“The extemporaneous thinking is important. It is a really important skill in life.”
“get life back to order. We've been through a lot.”
“A person who has an ego, isn't a team guy and doesn't have the priorities in his life in the right order, he can't make that decision. We honestly would coach for him and the kids. We're at a great school, absolutely. But he's what makes it special for us.”
“We're really keeping it in perspective because baseball is just baseball. This is life. It's more important than anything else.”
“We get to present things to kids so that they have a better understanding of life outside of where they are.”
“We have to go through certain things in order to appreciate life and learn lessons, I'm just in a really good, comfortable, happy place.”
“How are you going to say that when the husband of the woman you're talking to lost his life trying to protect you?”
“I used to believe in reincarnation, but that was long ago, in another life”
“The Incarnation is the medicine of the soul, undoing the Fall and bringing man to the Tree of Life, and the office of a priest is to administer this medicine in the sacraments.”
“He really is a poet. He is chronicling life from an 18-year-old's perspective. He's not showing off with long words, but with clever sentences. He looks around him and sees there is humor there.”
“The president extended our condolences on behalf of the American people for the loss of life.”
“He is pro-life with three exceptions. Rape, incest and when the life of the mother is in danger. That's his position.”
“The Palestinian people ... voted for change. But their aspirations for peace and a peaceful life remain unchanged.”
“I don't care if he doesn't hit another homer the rest of his life, he's the greatest player that ever played the game. If this is it for him, people get better get out there now because you're missing the greatest show on earth.”
“The destruction and loss of life in Pakistan is massive, and the United States is responding rapidly and robustly. We will continue to coordinate with the government of Pakistan to assess needs.”
“Jesus brings light into darkness and life into a world that is filled with death and destruction.”
“The destruction and loss of life in Pakistan is massive, and the United States is responding rapidly and robustly, ... We will continue to coordinate with the government of Pakistan to assess needs.”
“Regardless of wealth, older Americans carry an unacceptable burden of suffering in their last year of life. The older adults we studied who lived in the community suffered as much in their last year of life as do younger people who are severely ill and hospitalized.”
“We are disappointed at the decision. The president remains fully committed to building a culture of life, a culture of life that is built on valuing life at all stages.”
“I have been told to tackle issues closely related to (everyday) life.”
“This is a tragic loss. We were saddened to learn about the loss of life. Our hearts and prayers go out to the families and the entire community there in West Virginia.”
“People use aliases all the time in life.”
“I'm certainly for doing anything we can to support and help them to make their life easier.”
“The president's view has always been that we should be on the side of defending life at all stages, and that includes people that are incapacitated or people with disabilities.”
“Today was probably one of the hottest days I've ever experienced in my life. It was pretty brutal out there.”
“This is about defending life.”
“It is a reminder the global war on terrorism continues and the enemy has no regard for innocent life.”
“Much of the hardest work is ahead, but signs of life and activity are starting to return to parts of the region. The president's trip back to the region is an opportunity to highlight some progress being made as the recovery moves forward, and discuss continuing challenges facing the affected areas.”
“Kids who are sunburned early on in life have a greater risk of developing cancer in general of the skin.”
“East Davidson was good. Lee walked a few, gave up some line drives. He was down. It was like life as we know it was over.”
“She gets it done. I've never seen anybody shoot like that in my life.”
“It's a way of life, and they're very adaptable. We felt like going to Miami was going to be temporary. We didn't know it was going to be this quick, though.”
“All my positions are attempts to cherish life across the board.”
“In our culture, we celebrate life rather than mourn death. We look at it as the end of our life cycle. We honor our relatives that have gone before us on that day and we all gather at the cemetery.”
“Every goalie we play against seems to have the game of his life against us. We created some excellent chances but we couldn't finish any of our chances off. Even with all the penalties we had to kill, I think we created enough offense to win the game, but when he's (Miller) making save after save, all you can do is keep shooting.”
“What industry and people in private life need,”
“There were no signs of life at all. There is still hope but one has to be honest, that hope is diminishing.”
“I'm one of those life-long educators that always looks around and says you can always learn something new.”
“We try to magnify the difference between Americans and the English. In real life they like the same music and dress the same. It's really much more similar than anyone thinks or how we show it.”
“I used to live for basketball. I realized that's really not how I want to live my life.”
“These people need to come out of the shadows and start living a life that they deserve as contributors to this country.”
“If we close the facility, it's gone beyond its usable service life.”
“Our advertising celebrates this stage in life and portrays it as a chance for couples to reconnect and try new things. Its optimism really resonates with boomers.”
“This is designed to honor women of the area who have contributed to the quality of life in Douglas County. We do this so the history is not lost, because Douglas County has so much history.”
“We just didn't have a lot of life early. We're down 8-0 right out the gate and just were not playing well at that point. But we chip away and chip away to tie it up. It was just everybody doing a little bit here and there.”
“These are people who work hard... who bring their dollars here to make a better life for every single person in this community,”
“If it happens, I guess I can understand it because of the pressures. The life of a coach, it's one of those thankless jobs.”
“This kid is just an honorable kid, never done anything wrong in his life. He is absolutely innocent and we intend to show that sooner rather than later.”
“At least for now, I'm going to continue to do the commuting thing, ... It's just become part of my life. Sometimes coming home I think, 'What am I doing? I'm completely insane.'”
“It was sweet, innocent and nice, I liked the idea of cartoon characters coming to life.”
“Our research shows that 50 percent of single people believe they leave their dating life up to fate. But this same group of people say they are disappointed with their dating life.”
“You know, it's funny ... skating has always given me life,”
“We think it will help stimulate revenue through the reduction of churn and extend the life-cycle of the customer relationship with the carrier. It also reduces cost and adds transparency. It is really about simplifying the relationship between carrier and customer. As more and more of these services get teed up, there's more and more going on in the back office.”
“I don't live my life trying to prove anything. I set high goals for myself. I set high goals for my team, and as a group, we just try to achieve them. Contracts are contracts. They're just part of the business that's after football, but it has nothing to do with what we do on the field.”
“While bond buying by pension funds and life insurance firms was expected, the market didn't see it.”
“It's just a fact of life that once you get one, there is a chance you will get another.”
“I don't think he has ever suffered from want in his entire life, and so the matter of poverty and compassion is far from his heart and also from his policy,”
“Life has no beginning, middle or end.”
“We are trying to ease life of the Palestinians and to improve the economic situation in the Palestinian side, but the main obstacle is the terror activities,”
“I want to see Miss Jackson go to jail for life. You took my childhood, a childhood I was supposed to have. I was so disappointed I will never get that back.”
“We are continuing to do everything possible to improve the quality of life for the Palestinian population that is not involved with terror,”
“Recreational marijuana use is a fact of life nowadays. It doesn't stop Supreme Court justices from getting on the bench and doesn't stop presidents from getting elected, so why should it stop someone from getting hired by the FBI?”
“Certainly the first thing we need to do is to tell the court that a life sentence would not be fair in this case and we have to show the court through our own arguments and submissions that a sentence below 10 years would be appropriate.”
“It is very difficult to see how it can be brought to life, so it will remain on the backburner,”
“The present charge is one for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. There is a possibility of a life sentence.”
“The federal government has torn apart my personal life with the intrusive and overbearing investigation.”
“The campaign brings the signature yellow page walking fingers to life. The television vignettes focus on fingers walking less. Some are exercising, others are shoe shopping. The whole point is to demonstrate that fingers will do less work by utilizing our user-friendly directories.”
“It is a regrettable fact of life, but it is a fact of life that everything is done in the Congress at 11:59 if there is a 12 o'clock curfew.”
“Symbols are the imaginative signposts of life.”
“It's a fact of life our dues structure doesn't factor all of our expenses.”
“The birth of a child is a very special time in the life of a parent. We wanted to give parents an occasion to return to the hospital, show off their child and interact with our staff. Additionally, we thought it would be an excellent opportunity to throw in a little bit of education.”
“We're hoping to re-establish as much of the historical fiber of Slidell as we can. This is our life. It's very dear to our hearts.”
“It was like I was watching someone else's life unfold, ... But I think I'll continue to take it all in.”
“Initially, recovery needs to be their life.”
“Humans seem more interested in discovering life on Mars than we are on this planet. Yet understanding life on this planet is critical. It is said that modern medicine didn't begin until the completion of the Human Genome Project . Likewise, we can say that modern biology won't begin until we understand who we share this planet with.”
“It is a loss of a way of life.”
“We need to retain our quality-of-life aspects like museums, science centers and aquariums.”
“I am responsible for making sure that all of the church members live a godly life, and if they do not, I am in charge of their discipline.”
“You have anxiety until you meet the person that is going to be a major impact in your life. I understand that. Once we meet and lay everything out and talk, things will be fine.”
“When they drink such a large amount in a short time they're putting their life in danger.”
“The reality is, kids today ... may in fact have sampled drugs some time in their life. Does that mean we should automatically disqualify them? I don't believe so,”
“Understanding what's out there is essential for us to cherish it… We know so little about this life on this planet. Life on this planet is essential for its long-term sustainability.”
“Shane tries to be larger than the game and life and expects a lot of credit for his performances. He thinks there?s no better bowler than him.”
“I wanted to know what was happening and what army life is like in Iraq.”
“We would have liked five to life against Danny Villa, too, but as I said at the sentencing, the case was not as strong against him, ... It's very egregious to enter someone's home - especially with the intent to cause bodily injury. We take those crimes seriously and ask for the maximum penalty.”
“Looking back on my life, I wish I'd stepped forward and made a fool of myself more often when I was younger -- because when you do, you find out you can do it.”
“My whole life is never going to be the same anymore. I miss him very much. He was my baby.”
“My whole life has been decided by fate.”
“My life has pretty much been devoted to educating people about what it is like to be visually impaired and how to overcome it. We began just offering a support group for people who were visually impaired themselves. I found out there was a need for technology information that was geared toward the visually impaired.”
“This all affects the quality of life in Bordentown Township, ... and that's what we are trying to do, improve the quality of life.”
“I never did a thing in all my life, virtuous or otherwise that I didn't repent of within twenty-four hours”
“I think that we have to be aware that people are allowed to make mistakes in their life.”
“As for Kate Moss, I understand that she has apologized and is changing her life and I think that that is the most important thing.”
“She said if there was a film to be made on her life, then I was her choice.”
“He is our secret weapon to help young African-Americans avoid gangs. We want to save his life so he can save the lives of others.”
“I don't think I really invented anybody. I have drawn on real life.”
“First he says he wants to die a martyr and now he is begging the jury to spare his life and telling the panel that his dedicated lawyers are out to get him. It doesn't add up and perhaps that's exactly what he has in mind.”
“if we actually find advanced life on another planet whether they'll be as obsessed with their own genitals as we are.”
“Your whole life is on the other side of the glass. And there is nobody watching.”
“I came here in the best shape of my life and I'm pleased with the way I threw today.”
“the highest regard you can receive. That photo can describe an entire life, just an honor, as well as a fun moment.”
“I've had the same breasts for my entire adult life”
“There's nothing free in life. [These free databases] give you some subset of overall functionality, but there's a lot of difference between Express and Enterprise editions of SQL Server. Express doesn't give you much more functionality than you got with Access in Office.”
“I believe they are guilty and responsible for taking Diane's life, and I want to make sure they are held accountable.”
“Because it was their dogs and their careless disregard for Diane's life that caused her death.”
“General Barker was a guy that was kind of larger than life.”
“It's about a real-life safari through Africa going after this huge, bull elephant. After all sorts of trials and tribulations, Scotty has this elephant in his cross hairs.”
“The shortest way out of Manchester is notoriously a bottle of Gordon's gin; out of any businessman's life there is the mirage of Paris; out of Paris, or mediocrity of talent and imagination, there are all the drugs, from subtle, all-conquering opium to cheating, cozening cocaine.”
“If this message reaches just one of you kids, then I will feel like my life wasn't a total waste.”
“All these guys are just like me. They were a rookie at one time in their life. They treat me like I'm one of the guys. I look at Greg Maddux and saw him sitting over there and said, '[Man], that's Greg Maddux. That guy is going to be in the Hall of Fame.' Now I sit there and talk to him like a teammate. It's a reality check, and it's a great feeling at the same time.”
“Timber is my hero and undoubtedly saved my life,”
“I loved her heart for God and for the kids. She was just an incredible woman that touched everyone's life that surrounded her, parents and kids. Everyone was drawn to her.”
“It's a punishment that he's going to have to live with the rest of his life. To me, that's a far greater punishment than whatever games you missed or didn't miss.”
“Applying what they know, they are gaining real life experience which is way different than in theory.”
“Three of (the victims) were transported to a local hospital and are being treated with non-life-threatening injuries,”
“We see a need, looking to the future to target a broader spectrum of opportunity than just life insurance - important and profitable though we expect that sector to be for us.”
“I've devoted my life to educating children and I'm ready to put my experience to work at the Statehouse.”
“I just find it obnoxious, repulsive. I always thought life was more valuable than that but it appears that it's not.”
“It has been my fate in a long life of production to be credited chiefly with the equivocal virtue of industry, a quality so excellent in morals, so little satisfactory in art.”
“The plant really touched the life of virtually every person in the country.”
“fighting for his life”
“My whole career from the early 70s on has been mind-blowing. I didn't imagine in my life that I would ever be considered a guitar player first of all because I started off as a singer.”
“To cherish the life of the world.”
“I have been doing music all my life so everyday when I get up I expect music will be part of it.”
“They might not look like soldiers, they might not know much about drill, and soldier's life . . . and etiquette, and restrictions of rank . . . . ... but they knew how to get things done.”
“It's when you're going through the process of seeing the wood almost coming to life. Then, at the end of the process, with the eyes looking back at you, it's almost like it's coming alive.”
“You've got to remember that this is what you play for all your life, and being on the big show, you've got to keep trying, ... This is my first time playing the course and even if I don't make the cut, I want to play as good as I can for next year.”
“We had real personal experience that life is too short. Somewhere during these past eight years, we forgot to listen to our own inner knowledge of this and became caught up in our work lives.”
“It's inoperable. She will be paralyzed the rest of her life. And why? Couldn't they have shot out her tires?”
“The assistant college coaching life was a very unstable business. A boss might change, or you might be riding someone's coat tails. Opportunities like this one don't come along often, so I took the job.”
“This is a country that should be able to employ its people and give them a life like we live in the West. They know they should be living a decent life.”
“Life itself, however, flows and is sequential and punishes those who try to compartmentalize it.”
“This was almost life saving to us.”
“He was like a son to me. I'd give my life if she could have him back.”
“You attack life and I'm passionate about golf,”
“This is a guy who has done amazing things. He devoted all his life to that community.”
“Have little care that Life is brief,
And less that Art is long.
Success is in the silences
Though Fame is in the song.”
“When animal abuse goes that far with such a disregard for any type of life and done in such a grisly manner, that's something that definitely has to be looked into deeper.”
“Write a lot and read a lot and expect to give over your life completely to the passion of writing, ... I think if people are not willing to do that, they are forever doomed to be amateurs.”
“These are people who have helped to improve the quality of life in Richmond Heights. Their policies and their efforts have affected the community.”
“The life we give to beauty
Returns to us again.”
“That is the greatest moment of my life,”
“I think that [writing is] something often better than life. I look forward to going to bed so that I can get up and write in the morning.”
“We've outlived the actuarial tables. Life expectancy for women was about 70 in 1931 and about 63 for men.”
“The doctor told me she would be on a ventilator for the rest of her life. My mother always told me that there were two things she didn't want. She didn't want to go to a nursing home and she didn't want to be on a breathing apparatus. I had them remove the ventilator two weeks ago. She was comfortable when she passed on.”
“. . . the great thing to learn about life is, first, not to do what you don't want to do, and, second, to do what you do want to do.”
“For the last 15 years of my mother's life she was in a vegetative state, but she was breathing on her own.”
“His whole life is an epigram smart, smooth and neatly penned, Plaited quite neat to catch applause, with a hang noose at the end”
“Its nice that these are finding another home and another life because they are perfectly good sirens.”
“A generation or two ago, the Republicans were the pro-choice party and the Democrats were considered the pro-life party.”
“Learn while you're young', he often said, 'there is much to enjoy, down here below, life for the living, and rest for the dead!”
“Dog racing and the Henry family go way back. It's in my blood ... I've been in it all my life. I wish grandpa was still here. I know he's smiling down on us.”
“I'm not surprised, I've been playing quarterback all my life. I think this system fits well with me and I've been having fun with it.”
“has destroyed the whole base of life for people and other creatures.”
“This year I'll be ecstatic with third place. Would I be satisfied with third for the rest of my life? No way. But that may be our lot with those two guys (Louisiana Monroe and Louisiana Lafayette) spending all that money every year.”
“It was like opening the hatch on the space shuttle and feeling the life get sucked out of you.”
“I have never voted for a Republican in my life. But if you've got a good thing going, why change it?”
“What matters is that this bloke is happy; he loves life and he appears to love Melbourne. His glass is half full, or bubbling over, and that is what we like ... John So stands out in a sea of political blandness.”
“It will be a celebration of his life, because that's what he wanted, a big old party,”
“To the sick, while there is life there is hope.”
“I was holding him and it was a beautiful experience, ... He was quite expressive about what a wonderful life he'd had, to be able to have that kind of career. He was on the tour for 40 years.”
“Stripers weren't here, your herring, your sturgeon, your salmon. Fish life, the wildlife, there's just so much more right now ... with the dam removed,”
“He is the best young coach that I will ever see in my life.”
“Life can be tough, but it's tougher if you're stupid. You think you got problems? Get in my private jet and we'll go to Somalia or Rwanda. I'll drop you off in the middle of Baghdad.”
“It's been pretty easy adjusting to the college life. I went to school for the first semester in Pennsylvania so I got real used to the academic perspective of it and it took me no time to get used to living up here. There are a lot of good people so it's been an awesome transition.”
“I had no idea about his record here. I've only faced him one other time in my life, and that was in Minnesota.”
“This feels so great. I've been waiting for this my whole life, to be in this situation. I'm so happy for everyone.”
“This elegant process of generating diversity in nature has many potential applications in the life sciences. We are excited by the opportunity to build on Nature's successes.”
“The program has enabled me to get an abroad experience while retaining seminary life, the Liturgy of the Hours, daily Eucharist, spiritual direction, etc..”
“Music will always be a part of my life.”
“If it's life or limb threatening, we recommend the emergency room, and we still work closely with Methodist Hospitals. But if a cook cuts himself or an employees hurts their back or knee, we can treat them. We're a one stop shop, we currently have three clinics and are hoping to expand.”
“For once in my life I didn't think about last year.”
“Having literally dedicated the whole of his adult life to representing the people of Clarendon and Williamsburg, Alex was truly a servant of the people, ... That commitment to the ideals he lived by and the people he served will be sorely missed.”
“It was the best four years of my life. These guys will always be my friends.”
“Football is important but the fact that he got his personal life and school and family back in order, that is way more important than football. I am happy and very pleased that he got that in order. That's what I feel is more important.”
“That machine saved my life. I mean, really.”
“I think I just got as lucky as I ever have in my life, because I don't think I ever saw the pitch. It's just nice to hit a ball on the barrel, and more importantly, it's just nice to see us play good ball.”
“He has been involved in profound questions — questions of religion, of life and death, of art versus life, of the ability of art to propose questions about life or even be relevant.”
“We have the luxury of being able to show five of their music shows: Life in Rhymes, Two-Dollar Bill, Unplugged, Crossroads and Storytellers .”
“He had a great life. He did a lot of wonderful things, not only in sports but in the community. He was a real gentleman.”
“It's their life and if they kill somebody else they got to live with it.”
“It is basically theft. You spend your life recording albums and you take a year to record an album and write all your songs and when it comes down to it, people are selling it for nothing close to the value of it.”
“Life is not getting any cheaper for millions of American families, ... It's only fair to let them keep more of their hard-earned money.”
“When you're at that moment, when you have to say, 'Yes, let's discontinue life support,' that's really challenging psychologically, no matter what your beliefs were before that moment. That's the one case that made the news, but these kinds of decisions get made every day.”
“We have two kids, so our family life is very sort of mundane... take the kids to school, ballet, baseball and all of that. I like to go see movies, travel... but I love being with the family... going to Disney or something like that.”
“What is all wisdom save a collection of platitudes? But the man who orders his life according to their teachings cannot go far wrong”
“If you feel your life is in danger, fire your weapon,”
“Mostly what I hope they see is a piece of life they might not have experienced before. The most common thing people say when they visit is it feels like heaven, it's so tranquil and peaceful. People from the city just love coming out here.”
“I haven't had the rice pudding of my life today. But I guess I lost that opportunity with the end of my childhood.”
“He's been so focused on proving his innocence, and now he'll try to put his life back together.”
“In death as in life, these ladies were true role models.”
“My mother-in-law, she never watched cricket in her life and she's watching it,”
“It's a way of getting out of day-to-day life. If I wasn't painting, I would want to be at the beach.”
“You can minimize the risk but you are not going to get risk down to zero, ... It's like life. You can walk in well-lighted areas, but you might still get mugged.”
“My mother-in-law, she never watched cricket in her life and she's watching it. It's because we're good at it again. It's come back. Cricket's come back to England.”
“I'm used to it. They've been on me that way my whole life.”
“Relay for Life gets better and better each year and this year's event is the best one so far. We have been participating in it since its inception and we continue to do it for a good cause.”
“It's like the first day of the first horse show of my life.”
“These conditions are life-threatening and dangerous to the horses and the riders.”
“They had lost everything -- clothing, identification, cash and checkbooks. Everything was gone and they wanted to start a life anew in naples.”
“I always had a fantasy of being a chef, because I like kitchen life.”
“The opportunity I had at Sandwich would have changed my life if I'd played well enough. It was an unfortunate thing but you abide by the rules.”
“The Life and Death of Peter Sellers”
“I'm not saying Mike was like that in real life. Although he was and is.”
“I lead an introverted and boring life here in California.”
“My personal belief is there has to be a master designer who has placed life on Earth, ... The question is, do we require that to be taught as part of the curriculum in science class? That's a tough question.”
“I've been hoping and dreaming all my life to go into space. Now I actually have a shot of doing it.”
“The thing about this festival that I love is that it brings people from all walks of life together for a common humanity and that's literature,”
“I'm really excited, not only because its an honor I'll get to have the rest of my life, but because it will help me get into college.”
“This in one of the best matches of my life. I'm in my own world and playing great tennis. Having this crowd with me is just amazing.”
“I think it's one of my best matches in my life. I'm just in my own world and playing my best tennis and having the crowd here supporting me is great.”
“I guess I've done just about everything in life people told me I wasn't able to do, ... I respond pretty well to somebody telling me there's something I can't do. I started wearing glasses when I was 12, and people told me then that anyone who wore glasses could never be a great athlete. And I always took a lot of taunts because I was so big. I was always being challenged as a kid, but I grew stronger, and ((the taunts)) stopped pretty fast. In college they laughed and said I'd trip over the foul line. After a while, that stopped too. I guess you could say I've always had a burning desire to be successful. I still do.”
“I've had an enjoyable medical practice and an enjoyable family life, but one of the places I feel I've been most helpful was touching kids' lives through athletics,”
“Ah, what a dusty answer gets the soul When hot for certainties in this our life”
“I used to run around singing my life to myself. I'd be singing 'I'm going to fall down,' singing about what I was having for lunch, about how mean my brothers were.”
“That's the first time I've ever done that in my life. It was probably just a gut feeling. You can't be afraid to lose. I never thought we weren't going to complete that pass.”
“He's got a lot going on in his life right now. And he obviously feels that this is the time.”
“They come at you so fast. If you have a couple extra seconds to react, you can save a life.”
“Life does not stand still for families and local communities when our brave men and women are deployed, but we can make their time apart more bearable by recognizing their sacrifice and fulfilling our commitments to them.”
“Audiences are beginning to see how entertaining and dramatic it can be to chronicle real life, ... We're not just interviewing a bunch of talking heads anymore.”
“Tablets are more adaptable to daily student life. We want to assure our students continue to produce college caliber work, and are ready for the rigors of a top university.”
“When you extend life span, that's really something. That's hard to do.”
“I begged her to get another job. I begged her to date other people and start a different life. But there was no way and nothing I could have done at that time and no one I could have said this to, because it would have been unbelievable.”
“It's further evidence that there's a mechanism that's modulating life span that works throughout the living world. And it might even apply to us.”
“I was skeptical of their paper in 1997. But when they're extending life, you have to take it more seriously.”
“Each of the rooms tells a different part of Franklin's life in London.”
“Until you know that life is interesting - and find it so - you haven't found your soul.”
“The line of life is a ragged diagonal between duty and desire.”
“Women on the other hand, perhaps viewed having a successful family life as more important than their careers,”
“I consider myself lucky to have played for him. He taught me lessons about life, how the attention to the small things means so much. It was always a learning situation when you were around coach Boyd.”
“NBA life. You either play or sit out. He's a tough kid. Real hard-nosed, and we're going to need that in the playoffs.”
“We have no greater gift in this life than the children. We have to do everything in our power to protect them. I want to be the sheriff who helps catch the bad men. And maybe I'll push for some new laws so that they get more than probation or just two years in prison for what they do.”
“To know just what has to be done, then do it, comprises the whole philosophy of practical life”
“the priority of my life.”
“Sunday, the boy was clinically brain dead and being kept on life support to harvest his organs.”
“If you can do anything else in life other than the entertainment business, do that, ... Nobody in the business gets up and says 'I want to give Marc Summers a job.' People will cut your throat in a nano-second for a two-line walk-on [part] on a sitcom.”
“People are understandably concerned about the price of fuel because it impacts their life so directly.”
“The objective is to provide an analog close to space where the consequences are really life and death, ... Rookies can make their mistakes before they get to space.”
“We are very excited about the opportunity for us to be so intimately involved and engaged in the life of New York City.”
“I came here wanting to win the Stanley Cup and what I got was a life experience. I learned more about life coming here and seeing there were more important things than just playing hockey. That was sharing in the compassion and the overall care and sincerity of the people of New York. That changed not only my life, but the life of my whole family.”
“I don't think I'd ever done one in my life, but I said, Yes, sir, I do,'”
“My life is too short to become a film studio.”
“We live in a world where we make choices every day and The Coke Side of Life encourages people to make those choices positive ones. This new campaign invites people to create their own positive reality, to be spontaneous, listen to their hearts and live in full color.”
“Back of every noble life there are principles that have fashioned it.”
“Rod was a very meaningful person in my life, instrumental in my becoming the player that I was and the person that I am. I loved him a lot.”
“All of our investors love movies and have had success in life. They're all self-made people. I'd say every one.”
“I have been busy my whole life and I learned at a young age time management when balancing sports and school.”
“It's amazing how you don't know what you're going to do with your life until something like this happens.”
“I have been an "Official" all my life, without the least turn for it. I never could attain a true official manner, which is highly artificial and handles trifles with ludicrously disproportionate gravity.”
“That childhood may indicate that the more appropriate sentence is life in prison without parole as opposed to the death penalty.”
“Life is short and I have some things I'd still like to do.”
“For the life of me, I don't know how they missed the two palm trees and went through my fence.”
“I couldn't quit. I couldn't quit racing. Racing is my life. It's been my life since I was 15 years old.”
“The [championship] trophy doesn't make the man. Had I had that trophy, it wouldn't change my life at all right now.”
“In our lives, things don't always go the way we planned them. But life is like a big jigsaw puzzle, and as we enter these circumstances, we're only able to see one piece.”
“Schuyler's life involves pretty much this room that you're sitting in. We let her out one time and she came here to the hospital with a dirt infection.”
“Americans will not change their way of life until the financial cost is too high. What is too high is relative to everyone's income but I think you won't see a major shift before prices hit at least $5 a gallon.”
“This is probably the best time in my life and I just don't realize it. I've worked 47 years to be where I am today, and it's all downhill from here, so I better be enjoying it.”
“I don't know if it was a good life. He suffered a lot. I would take Drew back in a minute any way that I could get him, but I feel that's selfish.”
“Perhaps we will learn how small differences in the code of life enabled us -- but not chimpanzees -- to cook soufflés, create symphonies, translate our own voyages into maps, build ever more complicated artifacts, and write plays that reflect the social intricacies of our lives.”
“Perhaps we will learn how small differences in the code of life enabled us - but not chimpanzees - to cook soufflés, create symphonies, translate our own voyages into maps, build ever more complicated artifacts, and write plays that reflect the social intricacies of our lives,”
“Perhaps we will learn how small differences in the code of life enabled us -- but not chimpanzees -- to cook soufflés, create symphonies, translate our own voyages into maps, build ever more complicated artifacts, and write plays that reflect the social intricacies of our lives,”
“It's always been central in the life of the community.”
“I honestly don't know what else to think, for the life of me.”
“Rigorous, published, peer-reviewed research clearly demonstrates that treatment works. Medications can be an important and even life-saving part of a comprehensive and individualized treatment plan.”
“It was the best year of my life. Everything has to end. I'm just sad it had to end this way.”
“I feel great at the moment. In many ways, this is the best time of my life. I'm not fooling with alcohol or drugs anymore and I really feel in great health. I also quit smoking cigarettes when I had my car accident so I have a lot more breath control and can hit notes that I hadn't hit for years.”
“The fight that we have for hyperbaric therapy is well worth it because it saved her life. And now she's walking.”
“The enjoyments of this life are not equal to its evils.”
“We're about to invent a new stage of life.”
“Anyone who owns a pet knows how much critters can enrich your life. Valentine's Day is a day we celebrate love and those we cherish. ... It is a great time to adopt an animal into the home. You can open your heart and receive the unconditional love that animals offer - along with a wealth of other lessons they'll teach over a lifetime.”
“It's the first time I've seen it in my life ever, with her just walking like a normal kid. I'm a little bit overwhelmed. I mean, this is something that we have hoped for Grace her whole life!”
“People just need to relax and go about their life and enjoy life and enjoy Laurens for how they see Laurens.”
“Dogbert: "Well you know what they say, when life gives you lemons, make lemonade."
Dilbert: "But I'm allergic to citrus."
Dogbert: "Well you know what they say, when life gives you lemons, swell up and die."”
“Certainly, he's touched my life and the fact that he's gotten better and was able to play again, makes me realize that what I do makes a difference,”
“You're right on the money with that, ... We're all like detectives in life. There's something at the end of the trail that we're all looking for.”
“It was no wonder that people were so horrible when they started life as children.”
“Eva wears size double zero in real life, ... so we do a very funny scene where she'll freak out in a department store when it's suggested she wear a size zero.”
“Absurdity is what I like most in life, and there's humor in struggling in ignorance. If you saw a man repeatedly running into a wall until he was a bloody pulp, after a while it would make you laugh because it becomes absurd.”
“I am more on the conservative side in everything in life, and James is not as conser-vative and a lot of those guys are not as conservative. I always want everything to go a certain way. They were fine, but you always want to make sure that they were fair to both players.”
“Movies have never been that big in my life, I'm always to busy doing other things to find time to go to the movies.”
“In June, we practiced five times a week, so I didn't really have a life then,”
“If I had to choose a part of my life that was as close to perfect as life gets, it would be Catfish Haven. It was a lot of exploration. I?d go fishing barefoot and run through pumpkin patches. The world closed in a little bit when we moved back to Elgin.”
“I moved around my whole life, internationally, with my dad who was in international sales after World War II,”
“They're willing to come in and give (residents) a leg up on a better quality of life,”
“Weird offers since '90210?' Well, they keep offering me 'The Surreal Life.' But don't worry, I won't do it. If it's keeping you from sleeping, just don't fret that Brian Austin Green will be on 'The Surreal Life' anytime soon.”
“I wonder if anyone will ever know the emptiness of my life. Personal Diary -- Last entry "Oh what's the point?"”
“You can expect passion, ... It's about my life and my experiences. It's a really good, well-rounded CD.”
“We could be accused of being insensitive, but we think there's more to life than a bank account, ... Morality is an issue, and if you look at it critically, you'll see it is more than just dollar signs.”
“It's not something I want to do my whole life, ... But it is what I do.”
“Rather than ignore that life is difficult and filled with struggles, we wanted to encourage people to be hopeful and maintain their faith, even through troubling times.”
“Are we comfortable subjecting a child to a life-threatening, life-changing surgical intervention?”
“But life is tough and if you're creative, it's tougher.”
“We kind of have to re-think what does it mean to be human, to have a life span. What does it mean to be able to do things that your grandparents couldn't do, things like replacing parts?”
“That's our art - and we think it needs to be bigger than life, on the screen, the group experience in the dark. All filmmakers want that.”
“And I can openly and honestly say to you I have never had a day of depression in my life, OK?”
“Your life changes. Everything has to be done perfectly, and I didn't follow that.”
“That's all good theory and rhetoric but this real-life circumstance here, it's green, it's thick and good to have and I'm not shifting.”
“He made one mistake and now it's costing him his life. A lot of people get a second chance. I think he deserves a second chance.”
“On a life-or-death drug, the marketing should be as transparent as glass. But it was as murky as seawater.”
“I think you're seeing the growing support of the pro-life movement.”
“You really start to see some of the life choices the characters are starting to make.”
“We will fully get to know her and her life and circumstances and look at this aspect as the opposite of Jennifer's character. [She is] a woman who has chosen to marry her work and deny the family thing.”
“The whole entire Office of Student Life and UPB decided on the theme. We wanted something catchy.”
“This was the most emotional day of my life. I'm proud to be at the Olympics and at the same time my heart hurts so much.”
“The officer felt very much in fear of his life and took several shots at the car.”
“Japanese men's life expectancy falls by about 10 years if they divorce late in life. That's because they can't do anything for themselves.”
“(She was) full of life. She was loved and had so much to give.”
“It's definitely the same battle. Everybody has a right to life.”
“This man is a conservative. He's been a conservative all his life, and in 1985 when he was applying for a job, he reiterated that fact in his application.”
“I'm sure there's absolutely nothing in my life, including the loss of life of many of my loved ones, that even comes close to the same level of pain, and the same enduring pain, that has caused.”
“The truth is our country, our people, our liberties, and our way of life are under attack by radical Islamic terrorists who kill and destroy in the name of religion.”
“Christianity stands or falls as a living program, a way of life, made concrete in the life of man by the life of God through the life of the concretely living Christ.”
“Here I was in my 20s, and life seemed to me so exciting and full of girls and gardens and steamships and drinks and tennis games and countries and cathedrals... I mean, it seemed absurd to be writing these drab, depressed little poems. I knew there were things like death and poverty and injustice, but they weren't everything.”
“For a boring person, I've had a pretty wacky life,”
“What the city of Charlotte has done is sell their system as a quality of life issue.”
“Sometimes I think about what it would have been like if I had wrestled all my life. But I'm basically new to it and I've already come so far. If I were a coach I'd take a chance on a kid like that. If a coach takes that chance on me I'm not going to let them down.”
“We will not intervene in any aspect of Palestinian life ... except to convince people in a polite way.”
“It's real life. I try to break it down to their level.”
“I've trained all my life for this. If it's meant to be, I'll make the team. If not, I'll know I tried my best.”
“We're back to square one. Now we need time to regain calm. Our people need a quiet life and to make a living.”
“The less (Yeltsin) interferes in day-to-day life and real politics, the faster the country will return to health,”
“(If they win), I won't do anything special, just get up and go to work. Life goes on whether they win or lose ... but it's more bearable if they win.”
“I couldn't have scripted it better. That stuff doesn't happen in life, that's movie stuff.”
“This young boy appears to not have had many advantages in life, ... He didn't have his own bed and, obviously, that kind of environment doesn't give a young boy much of a chance.”
“I can't pay attention for an hour and 15 minutes. It would make my life better if I could go back and reference parts of the lecture.”
“Best season of my life, best year of my life.”
“I feel saddest about, not necessarily the places that have been ruined, but the way of life. New Orleans is like no where else. People live for the music. People live for the moment. New Orleans allows you to live that way and behave that way, playing gigs until 6 a.m. any night of the week. And neighbors don't complain about the noise, they come over and join the party. I'm wondering if it's ever going to get back to that.”
“I believe in the Law of everlasting struggle, which is the law of life, and in the duty of the best specimens of our race - the natural 'lite of mankind - to rule the earth, and evolve out of themselves a caste of supermen, a people 'like unto the Gods'. ”
“This moment was something I've been working for my whole life, ever since I started wrestling at 7 years old. I can't even describe how I feel right now.”
“To know what has to be done, then do it, comprises the whole philosophy of practical life.”
“It is vital that foster parents can perform that role in a very vulnerable time in a child's life. Making sacrifices is something foster parents do every day and we are very grateful to them for their services to children.”
“I ran for my life.”
“I was always making up rhymes. But I never thought that poetry would become my life.”
“That's definitely the biggest home run of my life. For five minutes afterward, I didn't know what I was doing. I was on a high for five minutes. I barely remember running around the bases. When I got in the dugout, I was being a maniac. Everybody probably thinks I'm crazy.”
“I worked so hard in the winter and I wanted to finish. I'm in the best shape of my life.”
“It was an experience I will never forget in my life,”
“When someone's life is on the line, you want to make sure it's done right.”
“Gonzales is someone the pro-life community would be very concerned about.”
“Mr. Richards has been a good influence on our running and in life.”
“Older folks who might otherwise have left us decided to hang on to life a little longer.”
“A wedding is such a dramatic event in any person's life that it's the perfect fodder for the movies, ... from picture perfect rituals to those chaos-ridden family affairs.”
“a theology of holy terror and the means to live the plotters' life.”
“This is the worst day of my life. I lost a part of me,”
“I'm looking forward to a normal life. This is the last step.”
“He had been running for his life for two days. His time in Central Park was no picnic.”
“He was so proud. I think when he got his wings, it was the proudest moment in his life.”
“He's looking for a little change in his professional life, or advancement.”
“You live your life with a sense of guilt. You have to do something good. You have to earn the right to be here.”
“He impacted a lot of kids, he always had a smile, and he believed in living life to the fullest.”
“I was deeply impressed when I visited Peru and looked at his supporters. I'm determined to stake my life protecting him.”
“I just thank everyone who ever touched my life in the game.”
“The trends in age-adjusted death rates we expected because we've been seeing an increase in life expectancy for some years now.”
“That was a big play. It gave us new life. We ran a little play action. Michael ran a good route and Duncan made a great throw. We thought we'd throw it early because the ball was getting slicker and slicker as the game went on.”
“I think I've gleaned that the most we need to work on is the quality of life, projects that make it better to live here. From health care to recreation to the retail section to elderly care. We've kind of quit chasing new companies. We're fully employed. We've taken care of so much, so fast, that what's left is real hard.”
“We were supposed to stay here until Wednesday. That's the life in Hollywood. Always on the run.”
“When you hear a boy ask why the sun comes and goes, tell him because in this life there is no light without the dark.”
“I am very full of life and there is so much to explore. I would love to act and to travel, all these things I can't do while I'm skating. I'll see what opportunities I have and where I want to go.”
“I advise people to wear blaze orange hunting clothing, not orange camouflage. Blaze orange will save your life.”
“Ultimately, it's only four minutes in one day out of my life.”
“Ultimately, it's four minutes of one day in my life. I've had such an incredible journey. I'm tougher than I think I am.”
“Religious experiences which are as real as life to some may be incomprehensible to others.”
“You always run a risk, but I think the positive outweighs the risks, ... Life itself is a risk. But I'm not worried about that. If I was concerned about that, I wouldn't be up here.”
“Part of it is just breaking the routine of life, getting away for 14 days. We're not worrying about paying bills or answering phone calls. Being in New Zealand is like living in the 1950s.”
“The stresses of daily life are all around us, from remembering to pick up milk to scheduling your next vehicle maintenance appointment. While these tasks and appointments are not likely to go away, there are new technologies available to help you navigate this sea of responsibility and bring you added peace of mind.”
“A wisdom tooth saved my life.”
“I love water polo. Right now, it's my life.”
“Life is never free of contradictions.”
“Our vision is not just of economic growth, but also of a growth which would improve the life of the common man,”
“This will finally bring us up to the 20th century and also create opportunities for our youth to gain life-long skills in the area of technology.”
“He was sensitive as to what makes life a civilized treat.”
“There are some moments in one's life which tickle one's nerves particularly and the first solo-flight is among them.”
“?Nobody goes to Hollywood with their boyfriend or girlfriend, like he's dead weight I can't have him in my life anymore? and I just think she was just really frustrated with how simple he was.”
“There's a huge part of my life that I've skipped over, but I'm fine with it. I've maybe been drunk once or twice in my life. In fact, my 21st birthday was in Tokyo, and everyone around me was drunk, but I was sober.”
“It broke my heart. I live my life by the value system that you treat others the way you want to be treated. I let love be my guide. I absolutely hate no one.”
“It's a party. It's a celebration of another year of life.”
“Morris read through the letter. Was it a shade too fulsome? No, that was another law of academic life: it is impossible to be excessive in flattery of one's peers.”
“The seniors are guys I'm going to be friends with for the rest of my life. [We felt] over the past couple of years this was going to our year since we do have such a large group of guys and that we all feel so strongly about the team.”
“I've been playing up and down. Coming here, I had a way I had swung the bat all my life. We worked on my swing and changed things up a bit. It was tough, but now I'm getting used to it and am starting to improve.”
“This is fantastic practice for what I hope to do with the rest of my life.”
“Nothing is more dreadful in life than the profound thought that death may only greet you with eternal nothingness.”
“[Most American cities began life around some basic means of production, like mining or manufacturing.] People come in to work at the factory, ... and the goods from that factory are sent out to other cities or across the region. But over time, smaller services start building up within the city, like little grocery stores or gas stations, that are servicing needs within the community. The internal infrastructure gets larger and larger, and over time it becomes the biggest part of the city -- the city producing goods and services for itself.”
“These are definitely not worth it if you already have life insurance. Flight and accident insurance are one-shot deals. If that flight doesn't fall out of the sky, the policy is over. It's much more effective to buy a good policy that has annual terms, rather than per-flight terms.”
“I've been playing sexually aware women most of my life. At this point I expected to be playing moms and wives. It's exciting to play a femme fatale.”
“I've never brought a lawsuit for delaying tactics in my life. I'm absolutely convinced there were several very substantial constitutional violations in Prop. 71.”
“I could spend my life as an anarchist, but to completely disassociate myself... doesn't solve any of the problems.”
“But she loved her dad; she was a daddy's girl. She said her father had changed the life insurance and she was going to get everything because her brother was not really his kid.”
“The life that we had with the so-called pranksters instead of the pros is likely to end. If you exist as a business on the Internet, you should be greatly concerned.”
“I'm an outdoor painter painting from life. All of my paintings are oil paintings. They are characterized by short brush strokes and bright light and use of complimentary colors.”
“It's the most ironic thing I have ever seen in my entire life.”
“The life that we had with the so-called pranksters instead of the pros is likely to end, ... If you exist as a business on the Internet, you should be greatly concerned.”
“We're realizing we're not in a very good situation. We showed some life in the past two games and now we have to keep it going. Guys are playing hard, practices are very good and guys are together as good as it's been all year.”
“Everyone can see that Microsoft does not live the quiet life of a so-called monopolist.”
“to live a decent, normal life.”
“I think it was a sad thing that he went over there to give his life because for Christ and make our nation better and end up getting killed for it. It's a tragedy the whole thing.”
“This decision was the hardest decision of my life. Most decisions, you sit on it for three days and make (an easy) decision. This wasn't one of them. I'm going to miss the kids at Westwood, the administration, Mr. (Thad) Gates (Westwood athletic director) and Ms. (Helen) Riddle (Westwood principal). They gave unbelievable support for the basketball program. I'm going to miss that part of building the program.”
“We thought about people who pushed the physical side of their life to their limits.”
“I've been playing guys like that all my life. I'm not worried about that.”
“People are living longer than ever before. A hundred years ago, the average life expectancy was 47 years, and the median age was 17½. When they chose the age for retirement as 65, the average life expectancy was 62½. Now, the average life expectancy is almost 78, and shows no sign of topping off.”
“It's a different way of life, ... You have none of the traffic, the rat race. Here, if you want to go fishing, you can be at a pond in five minutes. [And] I don't think we have the crime they have in a bigger town.”
“I thought high school was the best four years of my life, until I came to BC.”
“We had all just participated in the American Cancer Society's Relay for Life at the high school, when we stay awake for about 24 hours straight. We were a little sleepy.”
“Masters, I have to tell a tale of woe,
A tale of folly and of wasted life,
Hope against hope, the bitter dregs of strife,
Ending, where all things end, in death at last.”
“I thought my whole life was over.”
“Instead my life has been like being mashed and mashed through a wine press until finally there will be nothing left but the desire to live by divine will, knowing what I'm really supposed to do and doing it.”
“The older you are, the more money you can get because life expectancy is shorter.”
“I believe that the acceptance of gay and lesbian people into the life of the Church is something that is going to happen,”
“because he has ordered that mosques be reopened and this in fact saved his life.”
“St. Teresa of Avila described our life in this world as like a night at a second-class hotel.”
“Sometimes there are things worth risking your life for. It was Jesus who said if you want to save your life, you have to lose it.”
“I spent the first twenty years of my life waiting for two men I was reasonably certain would never come back - my daddy and Jesus Christ. I don't wait for them anymore. My dad, anyway. And at least with Jesus I didn't spend all that time thinking he was gone because of something I did.”
“independent [knowing] they can make the most basic decisions of life -- and those are when and where to bear children.”
“I'm federal agent Jack Bauer, and this is the longest day of my life.”
“In my real life I'm more of a walking Woody Allen movie. I'm afraid to drive and I can't swim and all that stuff so it is incredibly thrilling and fun to listen to my voice do things that, when it's in my regular body, it would never get to do.”
“It's great to work with you. You make our life easy.”
“Life is progressive and I knew my career was about to end. I came to the United States when I was 17 and didn't know much about basketball. Sacred Heart helped me to grow up and now that my career is over I just have to take it in stride and keep going.”
“In listening to so many people who have been touched by Mr. Penick's life, I really heard a message about coaching. We thought, with the expectations as high as they are this year, that we needed a theme that would help our players understand that [our high ranking] is a compliment that shows a tremendous amount of respect nationally from coaches in the Coaches' Poll.”
“This American Life”
“I didn't think he had much of a chance. His life was leaving his body pretty rapidly.”
“If you win the national title will it be the greatest thing that's ever happened in your life? No. I asked Bobby Bowden once, and he said the second national championship's a lot tougher than the first one, so don't get excited about it.”
“You know your life is different when the first call you get this morning is from President Bush at 6 o'clock and (my wife) Sally asked me if I was awake and wanted to take it. I said, 'I think so.”
“It gives the idea that there's hope and life after death, and the sense that we can overcome all our fears, our doubts and our obstacles and live the best life that we possibly can.”
“With this new wave of partner alignment around enterprise services, we expect to bring thousands of enterprise services to life for our mutual customers through community collaboration, ... Customers win when the ecosystem collaborates on a timely delivery of innovative technologies that solve deployment and integration issues. This architectural shift is happening now, and SAP is the only solution provider to bring together an enterprise-scale blueprint with ESA, an enabling platform in SAP NetWeaver, an available repository of more than 500 enterprise services, and now with Enterprise Services Community Process, a foundation of a collaborative process for building enterprise services.”
“His life hadn't even begun, if you know anything, please come forward.”
“There's kind of a split between the roles people play and who they are in real life,”
“It was one of the biggest shots of my life, and I didn't even get to make it.”
“Role models are huge, ... I started out writing poetry and might never have believed I could have a life as a playwright if Paula Vogel hadn't plucked me out and said 'you can do this for life.'”
“It's crazy. What's going on? I don't know. I just think life is piling up.”
“Once a dog is allergic, it will have that allergy for the rest of its life. If it's an environmental allergy, you can move away from it. If you and your dog move from New York to Arizona, you've changed botanical zones, but the allergy is not gone.”
“We played unorganized, we didn't come out aggressive, we didn't show any life, and we just didn't play our style of basketball.”
“I am not going to lie about it because I have never lost in my life,”
“We have to hold firm, life must go on and I think playing cricket is part of the normalcy that we are all absolutely committed will not be disrupted.”
“He's really improved the quality of life for patients. I'm trying to pay back what he has done for me and other patients.”
“I love my work. I enjoy being involved in the life cycle of such beautiful fish, being outside and being connected to the resource.”
“I love my work. I enjoy being involved in the life cycle of such beautiful fish, being outside and being connected to the resource.”
“Healthy eating is a way of life, so it's important to establish routines that are simple, realistically, and ultimately livable.”
“That's the NBA life for you. You've got no excuses not to be ready - get the smell off your body, ice on your knees and get back into it.”
“There's just so many people. I've never seen so many people in one place in my life.”
“I felt after I left prison in England that maybe there was a slim chance I could put my life back on track and have a career.”
“It appears that the work behind this project has been well done, ... There are no guarantees in life. What we do know is with well designed projects... there is a high probability people will use (rail).”
“My whole life I've been trying to show people I'm a decent woman, not just a black woman.”
“He said, 'Dad, I don't want to be at an office the rest of my life,' ... He felt committed. He liked helping people.”
“I did my crime and I paid for it, but I would like to have some kind of life. Look at this. Would you call this a home?”
“This thing of being a hero, about the main thing to it is to know when to die. Prolonged life has ruined more men than it ever made.”
“We actually had a decent second quarter for a change. Our goal was to hold Abundant Life to under 15 points and we did that.”
“Live your life so that whenever you lose, you are ahead.”
“His stuff was as good as it's been all year. His fastball had excellent life.”
“Mary Baldwin was a good transition experience to university [life], I think. We had a special orientation for us PEG students. And we had to take courses in math and history and such to make up for what we missed in high school.”
“Shrewdness in Public Life all over the World is always honored, while honesty in Public Men is generally attributed to Dumbness and is seldom rewarded.”
“Imagine where my mind flashes back to when I look at that. It captures a moment in my life forever.”
“Life goes on. We are not moving at all.”
“All his life, he fought against bigotry, racism and discrimination. He wasn't going to come and be buried in a situation like that. I had to assure him it was no longer a segregated plot.”
“He left his life. He came here and we didn't know him and he didn't know us. There was no trust.”
“I hate to even comment on it. When you see all those (homeless) people, the loss of life and all the millions and millions of dollars of damage, I don't know if you can even start to talk about how it affects an NFL team or season.”
“I hate to even comment on it, ... When you see all those (homeless) people, the loss of life and all the millions and millions of dollars of damage, I don't know if you can even start to talk about how it affects an NFL team or season.”
“He was the most enthusiastic officer I've ever seen in my life. We got him four months out of the academy and had him for two years.”
“In all my life and in the future, I will always be a faithful and loyal servant to all of my compatriots.”
“I never let prejudice stop me from what I wanted to do in this life.”
“That was like nothing I ever experienced in my whole life. If the building had blown up, I wouldn't have been surprised.”
“His No. 1 hobby in life was snowmobiling. He'd go home for the weekend and come back and say, 'I started the snowmobile,' and we'd say, 'but there's no snow!' and he would say he just wanted to smell the smoke.”
“It's a small town without that small-town feeling of people running your life. They're just there to help if you need them. You can do for the community, or you can be a hermit. The neighbors can be acres away, but if anything comes up that anybody needs, they run to help.”
“That's unacceptable. Every soldier who puts his life on the line deserves the best tools.”
“A lot of people take life for granted. I see life as a treasure to appreciate every day.”
“They won't be happy until they squeeze every bit of sweetness and joy out of life, it seems.”
“Some cities are well-prepared to attract and retain businesses. They have logistical advantages, a high quality of life, available work force, and a favorable tax and political climate.”
“Love Of My Life,”
“There was a time where never in my life would I bet the spread on Ohio State. Now I can't say that because they're going out and putting points up.”
“Some folks think I painted Lincoln from life, but I haven't been around that long. Not quite.”
“My life has been turned upside down by the harm he has caused.”
“They started a life of crime almost before they were teenagers.”
“My feeling is, life moves on. If there's a staff replacement needed, you replace the staff. He's still the president, and he has a lot of ability to change course and move away from the problem.”
“We're now real focused on life after Super Bowl. There are 27 qualified people from different backgrounds, and they're very employable.”
“You see few people here in America who really care very much about living a Christian life in a democratic world.”
“Any time you take something that is not alive and imbue it with life, that's puppetry. In my book, clay animation is a form of puppetry.”
“I'm feeling sharper, fitter, faster and more confident than ever. I'm loving life in Melbourne where the buzz about the club - and my relationship with the fans - is second to none.”
“I've had an exciting relation to France all my life, from my young years in Brooklyn when I thought that Paris was the place to be.”
“live what we hope is a happy life there and a better situation than right here around the busy traffic.”
“This is a rare opportunity to advance a landmark project early in the life of the 100-year Cascade Agenda program. Conserving properties like this is the basis of the Cascade Agenda. There is an opportunity to provide parks and open space and conserve working forests. Retaining these kinds of landscapes is important to maintaining the quality of life of the region.”
“There's so much mythology within my own world. A lot of stories that I have are real-life people, but they became larger than life.”
“Reverence for life starts usually with the first pet. If you can get kids to care and associate with animals from an early age, they're far more likely to have a care and concern for all life when they're teenagers.”
“We're like heterosexual life partners. I don't think Evan likes it when I use that term.”
“Where we were you could hear all the life of Baghdad, all the sounds of Baghdad outside, and that was another world.”
“It's naive to think that you're not going to have unexpected barriers. In real life, they occur all the time.”
“He was just beginning to enjoy life. He was just beginning to work like he wanted to.”
“The paper was important as a political intervention because the authors are squarely in the mainstream of academic life. The reason they're getting a hearing now is because of the Iraq debacle.”
“This has been the greatest four years of my life. I came here as a walk-on. I didn't expect to get anything. Anything I got I'm grateful for.”
“There are some men whom a staggering emotional shock, so far from making them mental invalids for life, seems, on the other hand, to awaken, to galvanize, to arouse into an almost incredible activity of soul.”
“I totally relate to Tom Cruise, ... He?s not crazy, it?s just the litany of the mid-life crisis.”
“We all would love to have such a rich life, with so many friends, but we all would like to be able to influence that many people, too. Coach Vaught is gone, physically, but he lives on, in each one of us, and in this university.”
“You know life goes on, you have to give it up. I told the Lord not to let me worry about it. Whoever gets it I hope they enjoy it.”
“What we'd discovered is she is mature far beyond her years. She's traveled her whole life and has a worldview. We learned she has great drive and discipline. We learned she was kind of fearless.”
“I, personally, participate because I have been a life-long snowmobile enthusiast and I would like to continue to be one. I want to be involved in everything I can to keep the sport available.”
“It's good training for a writer, ... entertaining people, telling them about your life, listening as they tell you about theirs.”
“The mall was her life.”
“Today the concept of midlife or middle age is much broader because of what's happened with life expectancy and increasing health, ... Today most people are going to see middle age as between 40 and 65.”
“The songs are not meant to be real life. They're meant to have a psychic - rather than a factual - bearing on the listener. It's rare that a song grounded in reality moves me because I don't feel like I'm getting the whole story. Songs are made to exist in and of themselves, like a great James Jones or Robert Louis Stevenson novel - they're not autobiographical, and yet there's a reality in every single page. It's real life of the imagination.”
“It's taken on a life of its own.”
“It was only because I changed my life that I have been able to help others.”
“I challenge the idea that we all start at the same starting line in life.”
“It's a deadly combination. His fastball is straight over the top like Jim Palmer's, with late life up in the zone. And the change is deceptive – high fastball, low change.”
“Hopefully this is what I'll do for the rest of my life.”
“There's a lot of things that have gone on in this kid's life that really, quite honestly, have affected his ability to focus on basketball. We had a good talk about a week ago, when he was really down, and I think that was positive.”
“Into our dying breath we'll be into the things that are important and affect our life greatly and that's our faith.”
“It's important to know that you do not need to eat meat to lead a healthy, energic life. Meat is a commodity! Major corporations spend millions of dollars advertising every year trying to trick us into that dead animals are good for us.”
“One of the sanest, surest, and most generous joys of life comes from being happy over the good fortune of others.”
“The releases of 'Doom 3' and 'Half-Life 2' may be more responsible for more computer upgrades than any other factor in the past several years, ... This could revive a PC games sales environment that has not seen a year-over-year weekly sales increase in units or dollars since the end of February 2003.”
“It would be easy to be bitter about the experience, but in life that was only a breath.”
“This man's life became a nightmare. He is a man with no prior criminal history, yet a man locked up in a case where there is no proof Ms. March is even deceased a case where certainly there is no proof that Perry March is responsible.”
“I've been married 34 years. I have not been a perfect man. I have made mistakes in my life.”
“It's never been presented to me as life-threatening or anything that would have to do with her life expectancy or her quality of life,”
“This is Terry Nichols' life to lose, at this point. He's ahead of the game. He's winning. The defense needs to hammer more fully the notion that he lacked any intent to kill.”
“He loves it, waking up at 4 in the morning, doing what he has to do, that's his life. You can take the boy off the farm, you just can't take the farm out of the boy.”
“I have more than four people on this planet in my life who see me for myself and forget that I've worked on network television. They forget I've worked in movies, and that I'm an actor. As long as I have four people who can do that, then there are others who are capable of doing that.”
“He's the consummate professional, played (the game the) right way and lived life the right way. He's not vocal usually, but will say what needs to be said. He was level-headed and everyone sought him out in the clubhouse.”
“The glimpses of his personal life against the brutal violence has that schizophrenic quality.”
“Unfortunately, Mr. King had to pay with his life. That does not mean it's a criminal event.”
“Any large industrial design project has a long life span and because everything is in Pro/ENGINEER, further design refinement is much easier. We are confident that if needed, we will be able to use and modify the data in the years to come.”
“For the most part I hit pretty well tonight. I just had the best meet of my life.”
“I was living a totally destructive life.”
“Everyone I've ever known in my life, or seen, or met, or loved, or hated, is at risk of being destroyed. That's a pretty big chunk of fear, and I think that's what we are all dealing with, if we don't save the day.”
“It is not in the world of ideas that life is lived. Life is lived for better or worse in life, and to a man in life, his life can be no more absurd than it can be the opposite of absurd, whatever that opposite may be.”
“That's not a Christmas present. It's with you for the rest of your life, so no one can take it away from me and say I'm not English.”
“It's a hidden slice of life. It's part of Albuquerque you don't always pay attention to. It's easy to overlook sounds going on around us.”
“When you start to live in a situation like that . . . it creates a sense of responsibility to your own life to do something that can help others.”
“No one considered whether a life without work would be satisfying or sustainable.”
“I'm at a point in my life where for the first time, running is purely and solely my own choice. I've been running for a team for over one-third of my life and now I'm just running for myself.”
“[Sunday's Mass served as] a significant moment in the life of our archdiocese and the city of New Orleans, ... The cathedral serves as a symbol that transcends any one faith and speaks to our community as a whole. Today sends a sign of hope to our city, state and nation.”
“One of the reasons he's so happy and has lived such a long life is he's always had a compatible mate. Maybe there's a message for humans.”
“Spiritually, the Holy Land really stirs you up and starts awakening many things in your life.”
“The Daddy Guide: Real Life Advice & Tips from over 250 Dads & Other Experts”
“It was a matter of saving life, ... You've got to distinguish life from property, and I don't think a lot of people are doing that. I think we're looking for a boogeyman.”
“As we neared the end of season 1, our plan was that each woman would enter a new life chapter. Gabrielle would learn to function without Carlos, Susan and Mike would build their relationship, Lynette would go back to work, and Bree would become a single woman. We either had to have Rex divorce her or die, and we already did the coma with Mama Solis.”
“I use [Yahoo!] for everything in my life, but I don?t pay them one dime.”
“'Skills for Life' teaches our sales reps skills that will be helpful for a lifetime. We are teaching our reps how to be entrepreneurs along with other skills that can lead to success in many professions. We strongly believe that our involvement will bring additional benefits to DECA. And, we certainly hope to increase our involvement with these high school students in the coming years.”
“The initiative is a severe limitation of the number of crimes that can be considered for a life sentence. It involves the release of thousands of felons that juries, judges and prosecutors ... have decided ... should serve their sentences. We would hope that the people would pay attention to our vote.”
“Work with any family members who are near you to begin to reconstruct your financial life on paper. It can provide a little sense of order. What you're trying to do on paper is to reconstruct your financial life that is tied to papers, that is tied to computers.”
“I like how he is into life. He is about more than just football. He told us that whatever we're learning now, we can apply to life in general. He definitely is a down-to-earth guy. I was so excited when I learned he was coming here.”
“It was quite amazing -- maybe not for the A's. He made life a lot easier for himself by doing that. How many people would've thought about touching the bag?”
“We see this as clearly crossing an ethical line where human life is being reduced to a commodity to be exploited. We will do everything in our power to make sure the voters are educated on the issue.”
“He should serve 175 years to life,”
“Generally speaking, when you have minority males killing minority males involved in the drug trade ? while convictions result and life sentences result ? juries do not generally impose the death penalty.”
“You just made this kid's life. This is something he'll have with him forever.”
“There has got to be more to life than being a really, really, ridiculously good actor.”
“Today, we celebrate life. A man who gave his life [to others] since the time I met him at the age of 16. I knew he would be special.”
“These kinds of fires are not common, but they do happen. When someone loses their life like this, it's always sad.”
“It's entitled 'Miss You.' So, bring your Kleenex if you come. It's going to be a celebration of Reggie's life. It'll be sad, but it'll be happy.”
“The relationships I have made as an RA are ones that I will have for the rest of my life. There is no better way to meet so many different people.”
“I believe that since my life began / The most I've had is just / A talent to amuse.”
“We mourn the passing of two friends, consummate professionals who made a life of reporting the facts despite the risks and the dangers that that brought with it.”
“He never just hung out. He was always tinkering. He loved living life.”
“Not like I dont prepare for every second of my life.”
“It's basically my own life story as of high school.”
“This is what life is about. It's a chance to give and help others.”
“Life has taught me that if someone is being whipped and someone is whipping this person, I am always on the side of those who are being whipped. I've always criticized U.S. foreign policy for forgetting that the United States should defend those who need to be defended. I would object to U.S. policy if it supported Saddam Hussein, and I have always criticized the United States for supporting military regimes in Latin America.”
“It's going to be the most important hockey game of my life.”
“A lot of people have said that. I'm the real life ken doll.”
“I know I did wrong, ... but I've done my time and now I want to get on with my life.”
“Alien life forms will look different, but they will have many of the same basic traits and performance levels and abilities.”
“You're going to go the rest of your life knowing the last game you ever played in was a win.”
“They thought they were putting an albatross around my neck. Little did they know they were building me a life raft.”
“Early trauma left unresolved can affect the quality of their life.”
“I figure you should try to better your life all year round rather than just one day a year.”
“It wasn't that big of a deal, and it didn't ruin my life or anything since it was more of a joke, but it just seems so petty of them.”
“I'm kind of overwhelmed right now. I've been fortunate to win tournaments in my life but nothing remotely close to this.”
“It is in plunging into the stream of life itself and entering into the deepest involvement with the values that confront us, exercising our wills to the utmost-to the breaking point-that we find God in the very extremity of the battle.”
“He lived a charmed life, I guess.”
“He really liked the script, but he also knew my life, stuff I'd told him. He was helping me cut it down and focus it.”
“Part of this is like history. And it's something you cherish for the rest of your life.”
“Nothing in life is certain except Negative Patient Care Outcome and Revenue Enhancement”
“Sometimes people enter these later-life marriages with expectations of traveling and doing fun things together and one spouse becomes ill and the other becomes the caretaker.”
“His life was literally hanging by a hair.”
“This is one or those moments in life, that is almost too fantastic to explain.”
“You honor the dead by the way you chose to live your life after they're gone. He needs football right now and we need him, too.”
“people who remain in the labor force late in life tended to be healthier, better educated and more affluent than others not in the labor force.”
“These stars live a short life because they're so luminous, they just use up all of their energy too quickly.”
“If I had stayed on medication, I don't think there's any way my life would be as together as it is now.”
“Some people who enter into a union later in life could benefit.”
“Teddy Roosevelt of course was a great outdoorsman all his life.”
“It's just part of life. I just tweaked it. I'm going to be all right.”
“I just love driving. I've been driving professionally for most of my life.”
“It was the craziest night of my life. I don't know what that guy's intentions were.”
“As we grieve the passing of John McMullen, we celebrate his life of extraordinary accomplishment and the formidable contribution he made to the success of the National Hockey League. His foresight brought a franchise to New Jersey and his fervent support helped build the Devils into champions. Our deepest condolences go to his family and to the Devils' organization, which has lost its cherished patriarch.”
“They're real life demonstrations of the biblical adage 'If you give a man a fish, he'll eat for a day. If you teach the man to fish, he'll eat for a lifetime.'”
“Each kid has a special box with different mementos. It's easy to prioritize when you're packing your life.”
“It's all about being in shape, tough as hell, on time and busting your (hump) every day of your life. You can't stop delivering the message. They're going to get that message as hard as they can get it.”
“did not help but instead aggravated the circumstances in which Venezuela's social and political life is played out.”
“As we grieve the passing of John McMullen, we celebrate his life of extraordinary accomplishment and the formidable contribution he made to the success of the National Hockey League,”
“Life is supposed to get tough.”
“As we grieve the passing of John McMullen, we celebrate his life of extraordinary accomplishment and the formidable contribution he made to the success of the National Hockey League, ... His foresight brought a franchise to New Jersey and his fervent support helped build the Devils into champions. Our deepest condolences go to his family and to the Devils' organization, which has lost its cherished patriarch.”
“I understand there may be complications in the life of a child if they no longer have a parent. But when my children were small, if I had to choose to save my child or myself, I would have chosen my child.”
“Jerome was dedicated to life. He had a driving passion. We're just trying to carry on his legacy.”
“The Flagler bridge was built in 1938. Bridges then were built for a 50-year life. We certainly got a lot out of it.”
“I have never kicked anybody. I have never struck anybody. I have never hit anybody in my life.”
“Fireflies are very romantic beasts because their whole adult life is spent courting.”
“It's the toughest challenge of my life because football is all I know. It's all I want to do. That's it, and when that gets taken away from you that hurts more than anything. There's an emptiness. ... I've got to stay positive. I'm not going to lie to you. I'm down in spirits right now.”
“It is over, it is done. I want to get on with my life,”
“The fundamental question for us is -- is my party serious when it talks about being pro-life? ... We're finally getting down to the central issues of this campaign.”
“I wasn't really trying to make a political statement. I wasn't trying to be pro-life or pro-choice. I was just trying to be pro-Nick.”
“If he wants to reassure his fellow pro-life conservatives, that's the last argument he should be making.”
“most difficult days of my life.”
“This is an achievement we will remember forever. The kids, the parents and the community are set for life.”
“He seems to have gotten his life back together. He has received help from other people but the biggest help has been from himself.”
“She's different, it's a pleasure. Before it was too serious, and every point was a crucial; every point was life.”
“Every practice he could make your life miserable if he wanted to.”
“It gave me a new appreciation for life. I don't play any differently. I've always been a hard-working guy, and I like to play that way.”
“Everywhere a man will be sure to meet at least once in his life something that is unlike anything he had happened to see before.”
“The officer feared for his life and thought this guy was going to run him over.”
“What a time to have the best game of your life. Making those threes, playing good defense. He's just getting better.”
“My life changed from the moment I saw that blue stripe on the pregnancy test, ... I knew I couldn't have a fag or a drink.”
“Until a friend or relative has applied a particular proverb to your own life, or until you've watched him apply the proverb to his own life, it has no power to sway you.”
“I've got children myself. All my life I've devoted to kids.”
“It has been a very personal album for me. It has been one of the best experiences of my life. It's a look into the past two years, going through different relationships, love and growing as a woman. It's a soul-searching record. It's really beautiful.”
“This [traffic stop] never happened. The government wants to write a chapter in Jimmy Roach's book of life that does not fit. Don't let them do that.”
“I love tennis. Quite frankly, I'm tired of people saying I put tennis third and last in my life. If I did, I wouldn't be here playing. I wouldn't be here practicing. I could be at the beach. I could be retired. I could be drinking lemonade with my legs crossed in the sun on the beach. I'm not doing that. I'm not in Saint-Tropez.”
“I love tennis, ... Quite frankly, I'm tired of people saying I put tennis third and last in my life. If I did, I wouldn't be here playing. I wouldn't be here practicing. I could be at the beach. I could be retired. I could be drinking lemonade with my legs crossed in the sun on the beach. I'm not doing that. I'm not in Saint-Tropez.”
“In the NBA playoffs, every game takes on a life of its own. You never know who is going to be the guy that steps up and gets something going.”
“We're not going to meddle in the internal life of other peoples and other governments, because we don't want them meddling in ours.”
“If I had to make a choice on that at this point in my life, I've been a terrible investor. And I haven't been.”
“Everybody is so resilient and in so much poverty. They have been dealt hardships throughout life but their spirits are up.”
“You know we grope differently on set than we do in real life. Our onset groping is really much more disgusting than our real-life groping.”
“Potentially every single person here has the opportunity to save a life of a friend, a neighbor or a co-worker.”
“In some ways, her life is so much worse that everybody else's, people feel almost cheered up and inspired. They feel like, 'If Hayley hasn't killed herself, why should I?'”
“It's tough to go out and play so hard and know that now our playoff life is on the line. I don't think it's over by any means. We'll just have to win out and see what happens from there.”
“Death is the privilege of human nature,
And life without it were not worth our taking.”
“He spent his life campaigning against many of the very things we face today.”
“This group is more in tune with a religious life than previous generations, ... It's a remarkable shift toward religiosity; 35 percent consider themselves to be born again. They've gone from the 'me' generation to the 'we' generation.”
“This has saved my life. It allows me the stability of a decent home, to function as positive element in society.”
“They made my daughter smile. It's phenomenal that people you don't even know can change your life.”
“It's not a big deal. We've got good players behind him and we're ready to go. That's life. It's a window of opportunity for those two kids and they need to jump on it and go get it.”
“When you're in Life Flight and you've got just as sick a patient, you're it.”
“What we don't talk about enough is Ohio's unique and remarkable quality of life. We are a state of cities, small towns and growing suburbs where life is affordable and destinations within reach. There is no better place to raise a family.”
“FIFA places great importance on respecting human life and the physical integrity of human beings. Prostitution and trafficking of women, however, does not fall within the responsibility of an international sports federation but (with) the lawmakers of (each) country.”
“FIFA places great importance on respecting human life and the physical integrity of human beings.”
“They try to reassure conservatives that she's pro-life. Then two hours later McClellan gets out and says this doesn't say anything about how she would rule. I don't think that was very effective.”
“I got to a place in my personal life that I had to call the counselor I had been referring my members to. Now I needed a place on the couch.”
“Life ain't always beautiful, but it's a beautiful ride.”
“I'm 62 years old. Never in my life have I experienced anything like this. My family and I were all in bed. All of a sudden, the house just started shaking. It was so strong and so loud. My son yelled for us to get downstairs, but by the time we did, it was all over.”
“People understand the disgusting length this organization will sink to, to attack a woman who has dedicated her entire life to children. It will absolutely backfire.”
“Let the life of every Turkmen be as beautiful as our melons,”
“He always rode English saddle and was a phenomenal horseman. Most of his really close friends throughout his life all had an equestrian background.”
“She said she thought inmate Lawson had a bad rap in life and she was doing a kindness (by helping him escape),”
“Remember, it is your last big social event. It is a celebration of life. One of your great celebrations. It should be treated that way,”
“You can save my life by taking better care of my spouse as she dies. People care about the burden of their death on their loved ones. When I'm sick I want to know the impact of my health on the health of my loved ones.”
“I will govern my life and thoughts as if the whole world were to see the one and read the other, for what does it signify to make anything a secret to my neighbor, when to God, who is the searcher of our hearts, all our privacies are open?”
“They've never worked this hard in their life, so I can't really fault them, but after a while, it's got to register in your head that if a kid gets 18 points in the first half ... I've got to do something to stop him.”
“It hasn't been great up to this point. I've had ups and downs . . . life is like that. You are going to have adversity. You have to try to improve, and I'm very thankful they've cared enough about me as a person here and have let me grow.”
“We're bringing him home just to save his life and give him a place to live.”
“All my life I have been seeking to climb out of the pit of my besetting sins and I cannot do it and I never will unless a hand is let down to draw me up”
“If you were to look at his life as a great a work of literature you would say it was the natural thing to happen. But there is so much about Bob's story that has this feeling of manifest destiny.”
“No man enjoys the true taste of life, but he who is ready and willing to quit it.”
“The gradually declining years are among the sweetest in a man's life”
“The good man is Nature's creditor, giving her back better life than he had of her”
“We do not see design as a discipline, but as a way of life. We hope we can teach our students to have confidence in a methodology of how to innovate routinely.”
“I like the fact that the players feel it and have some life in them,”
“Many have gone through life merely accumulating the instruments of life. Consider individuals, survey men in general: there is none whose life does not look forward to the morrow. 'What harm is there in this?' you ask. Infinite harm; for such persons do not live, but are preparing to live. They postpone everything.”
“I have never been so scantily clad in my life! But I've never really had much of a problem with it ever since I was a kid... And then also being, you know, a dancer and a model. Growing up in Hawaii, running around in, you know, shorts and swimsuits and stuff, I never really had a problem with it.”
“One should count each day a separate life.”
“I think I had life on my pitches -- I wasn't throwing beach balls up there, ... I don't think I'm tired.”
“He'd just come into my life but it shook me up very much. That was a life-changing experience that sometimes touches you in more ways that you think.”
“He was just one of those really larger-than-life folks. He was so successful because he valued loyalty and played by the rules.”
“one of the most athletic roles I've done in my life. The choreography is very athletic, and it's a very intense time.”
“You only get one life so you might as well make it a happy one, and that's why I tend to just jump into things. I'm sort of a fearless idiot that way.”
“I've played my whole life with these guys. There's no better way to end it.”
“For now, they were banned from the V-League, which starts in January. They could be banned for life if convicted in a court.”
“The two players could be suspended for life if convicted in a court of law.”
“The system software can be upgraded to support new devices and new in-car experiences over the life of the car similar to how we upgrade software on PCs today.”
“Certain incidents, like the Taylor Coles murder, that was outrageous even to the lowest form of life out there, ... Unfortunately, it can take a tragedy like that to get people to rally behind the police.”
“It would be demonstrating how a community can grow not only in size, but in quality of life.”
“I love my kids, I'm a proud father, a happy husband, and all of that. I live my life with my wife as a normal person, and that's that.”
“I look at life through different eyes than I did a few years ago.”
“You have to have a good perspective, not just on football, but on life. You really have to have your life in order in terms of what's important to you. I had to understand that football was important to me, but it wasn't my life.”
“For most families ... (the kitchen) is the hub of their family life. If you're going to spend that much time in there, you want it to work as efficiently as it possibly can for you.”
“This is the hardest decision I have made in my life and it feels like a part of me has died, ... If given a choice, I would prefer to receive some form of non-judicial punishment, return to flight status, and continue to use all of the training I have received to benefit the Air Force in my country.”
“God may be a matter of indifference to the evolutionists, and a life beyond may have no charm for them, but the mass of mankind will continue to worship their creator and continue to find comfort in the promise of their Savior that he has gone to prepare a place for them.”
“Honor your divorce and your new life the same way you honored your marriage.... And if you 
didn't honor your marriage, learn your lesson and honor your divorce.”
“Today's crime rates, the political situation and public life allow us to hold the elections because a civil society has been built in the Chechen republic,”
“That helps me get through any tough time in my life. There's so many ways you can run away from it, but when push comes to shove, the truth is going to look you right in the face. You can be an atheist and all that, but when stuff is hitting the fan, it makes you question some things. Things don't just happen. They happen for a reason.”
“salute smartly, get Marc Zigo the hell out of my life 
and move on. I wouldn't have to live under his threats 
anymore.”
“I spent 40 years of my life getting us here, ... The idea that I would be the excuse to cannibalize the majority is so sickening I couldn't risk it.”
“I tell folks all the time, I'm glad I was able to start out my life like that, but I'm also glad it's over,”
“It's a classic case of life imitating art and the irony is not lost on Jude. He didn't shoot Daniel but gave him both barrels verbally.”
“In a last act of desperation, you just run for your life, literally. It's a shocking thing, the loss of life.”
“Only the active have the true relish of life.”
“Aim for your star, no matter how far, you must reach high above and touch your life with love, you must never look back, but charge on! Attack! See your goal your star of desire, see it red hot, feel it burning, you must be obsessed with it to make it your true yearning, be ready my friends for when you truly believe it, you will certainly achieve it and by all of God’s universal laws you will always receive it!”
“It has probably been the most stressful week of my life for me, getting all the guys prepared. This has been our goal all season long, even dating back to last season. The guys worked hard and wrestled very well today. They deserve this.”
“It has been the absolute lowest low that I have ever felt in my entire life and the highest high and I pray to God that no other parent has to go through what we, the four of us, have gone through here and all of our family and our friends. It is because of all of the prayers and everything that everybody has put out there and all of the hard work for the Amber Alert and the local authorities and the state authorities and federal authorities and the media. Thank you! Thank you!”
“The purpose behind Battle of the Bands is to raise funds for Relay for Life.”
“Up until that point, it was the best run of my life.”
“I needed something in my life. I needed an outlook on life. I needed something to occupy my time.”
“I just picked it up, didn't move my feet and forgot everything I ever learned in my life,”
“I want people like Rocky. I like underdogs. I've been one all my life. I like people who take it as a challenge when they're told they can't do something. This whole situation is a little like that.”
“Right now it's still really emotional because it's been such an important part of my life and I've met so many great people here, including (head coach) Kevin Boyles. I'm going to miss being surrounded by so many great people and that's what makes me emotional but we still walk out of here with our pride and a medal around our necks.”
“I have to say it was the best four months of my life. I stayed with a French family. I traveled a lot and took 20 hours of intensive French courses.”
“People who literally have life and death power over you . . . need to be held to a higher level of standards.”
“One of the few advantages of prison life is that one has time to read. This opened our minds and forced us to re-examine some of our views.”
“The PAC clearly believes so. It was a business-related trip in the political life of Jack Evans.”
“She was nine when she came in, and we had her several months. Her home life was not the best. She was expected to be the mom - we had to teach her how to be a kid. She loved baking cookies with me.”
“I am not someone who sacrifice all for the cinema, my life will be always more important.”
“My father has a general rule. He says if I haven't done it in real life I shouldn't do it on-screen.”
“Star Wars hasn't changed my life at all.”
“They'll change your life.”
“Changing my diet changed my life. I want to get digestive problems out in the open so people can get help. Most Americans are literally dying from embarrassment because they are too embarrassed to discuss what's going on in the bathroom with their doctor.”
“I could've lost my life and my daughter's life.”
“It's good to stay as close to real life as you can, and then kind of dress it up.”
“It's a delicate balance between your personal and your professional life. I coach my clients to make their life easier and be more productive with the their time.”
“My essay was entitled, 'To Tell, or Not to Tell,' about one of the hardest decisions I've faced in life. I knew my friend would be mad, and I can't say that it did not cost me a friendship. But I helped my friend by letting her family and friends know of some wrong decisions and influence she'd allowed to come in her life.”
“Life is ... you work, you support yourself, take care of yourself, but you also have to take care of your community.”
“It's a new start for her. All her life, she's sacrificed for us, and now, because of an accident, she gets to start over. That's pretty brave.”
“Novels are longer than life.”
“Life is like a movie-since there aren't any commercial breaks, you have to get up and go to the bathroom in the middle of it.”
“He sounds at peace with himself. Living in prison is no life. He would rather be put to death.”
“Bollocks! They keep saying we're going to split. I've never been happier in my life, ever. No chance.”
“Based on the benefits that were available, people made irreversible life-changing decisions and to go back after the fact and take away those benefits when they have no ability to change their decisions is just not the right thing to do.”
“She loved her two sons more than anything in this world, ... They were the highlight of her life.”
“I've never thought about it. A big part of my show, my life and paying respect to the music scene is making fun of it.”
“Everything this year has been so great. People ask why things happen to them. Things in life happen for a reason. Everyone on this team, including me, has been blessed. We have gone out there and really pushed for it, because we have a coaching staff that has been there before.”
“The law has always balanced the sanctity of life versus the dignity of the person, but right now we're not protecting the dignity of the person and we're only paying lip service to the sanctity of life.”
“He reiterated his commitment to ensuring life of peace, self-respect for people of J&K.”
“While there is life there is hope, has deeper meaning in reverse. While there is hope there is life. Hope comes first, life follows. Hope gives power to life. Hope rouses life to continue to expand, to grow, to reach out, to go on. Hope sees a light where there isn't any. Hope lights candles in millions of despairing hearts. Where would I be without hope?”
“It is not something I really want to do. I'd love to stay here the rest of my life, but his education is pretty important to us.”
“The whole idea of migrating here was to achieve a peaceful, comfortable and good life, ... But this traffic is damaging the Dubai dream.”
“Something very important is missing from my life: consistency.”
“Life is so fast these days, and we're exposed to so much information. Television makes us a witness to such misery.”
“He even joked that there were enough life vests for everyone if the boat sank.”
“Childhood lasts all through life. It returns to animate broad sections of adult life. . . . Poets will help us to find this living childhood within us, this permanent, durable immobile world.”
“Remind me each day that the race is not always to the swift; that there is more to life than increasing its speed.”
“The combination of Hibernian and CGU should enhance significantly the position of the combined group in the life and savings and general insurance markets in Ireland, one of Europe's major growth economies.”
“We both thought this is where my hunger came from, living in the training center, living the simple life. For me to be my best, I didn't want to change anything before 2006.”
“Overall, the results projections are slightly above expectations, based mainly on the upbeat outlook in the non-life insurance business.”
“Some people might want to blow it out of proportion. To me, it's everyday life, making proper decisions based on due diligence.”
“He wants to live his life like any of us would want to live their lives, without any further need to comment.”
“served its useful life.”
“If we have to make life better for these (rural) people and give them reasonable standards of living, disposable incomes, healthcare and nutrition and education, I personally believe we have to look at low-tech manufacturing to start with and then high-tech manufacturing in a big way just as China has done because most of these people are semi-literate or educated at a very basic level.”
“We have come here today ... black, white, young, old -- people from all walks of life -- to say to the world that we love the life and we revere the life of Martin Luther King Jr. And we thank God that he passed this way,”
“The combination of Hibernian and CGU should enhance significantly the position of the combined group in the life and savings and general insurance markets in Ireland, one of Europe's major growth economies,”
“He's a very nice man. Big, I mean bigger than life.”
“I've always been a pretty private, quiet kind of person and so I haven't had to change my life really at all, I don't think.”
“We just wanted to present a better tone for 'Better Life,' and I had been down to New Orleans and was struck by a combination of things -- how much has been done and how little has been done. We just wanted to bring a little more awareness back to the cause down there.”
“We're thanking everybody from the bottom of our hearts. It's like a new chapter of our life is starting.”
“Our life, asset management and general insurance businesses all achieved better results, helped by the inclusion of acquisitions,”
“My social life is down to the minimum. I don't go out. I don't drink. My lifestyle is pretty boring.”
“You can't put a price on a life. If it's not broke, don't fix it.”
“I've been in the dry-cleaning business all my life. Heat doesn't bother me.”
“I've had to live with this all my life. It's something I deeply regret.”
“I'll just go on to the next part of my life.”
“We talk about what an impact it would have on your life if you did become pregnant as a teenager.”
“My life was paralyzed. I work in a white-collar world, and we are not used to bombs ... We were afraid to go to sleep at night.”
“I have never seen anything so botched up in my life.”
“The guides are very hands on. You could show up and never have thrown a fly in your life and really have a pretty neat experience.”
“I can only think about a regular family, and a husband whose life was in danger all the time, and there was still a sense of grace about her through all that. You couldn't help but admire her.”
“[On Shred , the fraternal interplay is unmistakable.] I've been playing with my brother pretty much my whole life, ... I haven't been in a band without him. We can jam all night if we want to, just making shit up on the spot. So when it comes to writing songs, we're always pretty much locked in, we've been playing for so long together.”
“There was no incremental news that came out of the meeting. McDonald's has reached maturity in its life cycle and it can't turn around, while its growth may be on the decline as consumers move toward healthier choices.”
“There was no incremental news that came out of the meeting. McDonald's has reached maturity in its life cycle and it can't turn around, while its growth may be on the decline as consumers move toward healthier choices.”
“Love's like the measles - all the worse when it comes late in life.”
“We're still in search-and-rescue mode. We're in the saving life and limb thought process.”
“My life in general has been pretty much the same. I try to live the same lifestyle I was in 2002. I want to keep the same values.”
“For any of us, think about how unstable your life is if you don't have a place to live. You can't develop effective treatment for the chronically homeless unless they are stable in housing first. You know you have a broken system if you are spending large amounts of money on county health workers and nurses looking under bridges to treat them.”
“Life-size is so much more engaging. They want to see what she's writing, they want to see what she's reading.”
“I really don't have time for a guilty spending life.”
“For him, his whole life has been wrestling, coaching and teaching, and now he can go back to that.”
“Mr. Benitez has led a law-abiding life — not even a traffic ticket. Nothing.”
“I feel like only now in my life do I really get it -- do I feel that sense of calm. And I feel very grounded. I feel much more confident. I feel, you know, sexier, more intelligent, more to offer, more wisdom, more life experience to draw from.”
“A Life That Matters. I have too much anger at what's happened.”
“So far, my forties have been the best time of my life. If I can hold a banner for women in their forties that says life isn't over and sexiness isn't over, then great.”
“After spending three years of my life looking into this, I am more convinced than ever that the U.S. government's responsibility for the drug problems in South Central Los Angeles and other inner cities is greater than I ever wrote in the newspaper.”
“What is life, after all, but a challenge? And what better challenge can there be than the one between the pitcher and the hitter.”
“The residents just really enjoy her. She brings to life the little things she talks about. She's just fantastic. She has a wonderful personality and [her] outreach to residents has been so wonderful. There's just a certain sparkle about Lindsey that draws you to her, she's vibrant. You know she has something.”
“God has given me so many things in life, spiritually and monetarily. I like who I am, I'm a pretty healthy person.”
“I think that the moment for women has arrived. Not for women but simply for the harmony of life.”
“... And let God work on you in your journey in life.”
“People like the way things are in Winneshiek County, the quality of life and healthy living. There's controversy because we want things to remain the same, but change will happen. We want to see growth, but see smart growth. We want to shape our destiny, not let it shape us.”
“Standard Life has made a strong start to 2006. The results for the first quarter demonstrate the success of our re-positioning.”
“We assessed the approaches and believe they do not offer value to our members. Indeed, they significantly undervalued Standard Life.”
“They're brokenhearted, they're devastated. They feel as if their life is over.”
“He's like a trickle before the dam breaks. You look in his eyes and you see his life. He's got so much going for him, his spirit is unbelievable.”
“I'm still getting some good life on the ball without the max effort. Everything is finishing toward the plate and seems pretty smooth. My location seems better because of that.”
“I've got my feet firmly on the ground, I can't see life changing too much. I reckon more girls will talk to me at college and more people will look at me, but they know me for who I am.”
“It was the hardest year of my life. It was humbling. I was a fish out of water.”
“I will get to read a lot and not answer the school bell. I've spent my whole life answering bells. Now I will take up golf again.”
“I must say acting was good training for the political life which lay ahead for us.”
“There are basic quality-of-life issues. There is no housing, no schools, no hospitals. People are still waiting for FEMA trailers.”
“It kind of took a life of its own. It wasn't an injury or anything.”
“I spend a lot of my life in back of cars - Oops! I didn't mean that in the way it sounded. Like hence the two kids.”
“Ultimately, intimacy is more fulfilling than accomplishments. High achievers have an empty spiritual life. I think God made us so that our greatest joy is found in relationship.”
“It had the potential to get really bad. The loss of life is unfortunate but, given the location, it worked out well for us,”
“I've suffered many, many ups and downs in my life. And so does everyone. And the thing is to always know, with this down, the only place you can go is up,”
“Students interested in living in the new hall are encouraged to call Residential Life.”
“This kind of comprehensive, wrap-around service is what works. It's just not good for the civic life of a metropolitan area like LA to have a skid row.”
“This is what I've been working for my whole life. I'm glad it's finally happening. Getting a scholarship has been something I've thought about since I was a young kid. It really is my ticket to college. It's exciting.”
“Residential Life has been very helpful. Three, four, five times Residential Life has been notified to clean. Two times it was painted with some mold proof paint, but the mold is back now.”
“She has no room in her life for self-pity. She's about the business of what she's doing. It's a formula that works for her.”
“[The] series is set in a fantasy universe based on the Australian landscape I've known all my life, rather than Europe or North America. It's not, however, based on local indigenous traditions. I like to think that it's something new, an alchemical blend of several very different cultures.”
“I spent the 10 best years of my life here.”
“Napa offers substantially improved performance at the same time that we have this better battery life.”
“From November to December, we were living a retired life. We didn't have anything to do, but we're New Yorkers! Something has to happen - something must go on!”
“Shakespeare was a working actor who worked in the same theater company his whole life, and we need to take seriously his own commitment to the theatrical realization of his work.”
“I got to protect my eggs. I've got food, I've got toys, I'm having the time of my life.”
“We were helping people with the transitions they needed to make in life.”
“It's just not fair that they were taken away from us at the prime of their life.”
“You are not a pawn in the chessgame of life, you are the mover of the pieces.”
“This is where I'm most comfortable, ... This is my life, where I work. I'm definitely glad to be back.”
“I spent all my life coming up here with him. We actually chopped down the trees and sawed the lumber and had it cleaned and built the house.”
“I don't think anybody should have regrets, especially me, ... You don't regret what you do in your life. If you do it, you do it for a reason. I'm here, and I'm happy to be here, and I'm happy to be working.”
“I feel I have a terrific attitude to life. I get a bit grumpy sometimes, but only when I take on too many things.”
“I want people to see that for themselves in their own life. Whatever you're faced with you already have the tools to transform that adversity into something that's positive. That's what I proved to myself.”
“It's nothing we wanted to see happen. I don't know how you replace someone that taught football and life so well at the same time.”
“We couldn't have done it without them. They had their own life experience they were bringing with them, many of whom lost everything – their homes, their jobs. They truly could empathize and relate to the other evacuees.”
“It's just a good, quality life.”
“(Fielder) has been in a major league clubhouse his whole life. He's not awed or wide-eyed by this. He knew he was destined.”
“It's 85 percent based on my life. I definitely went through the whole rigmarole. Only I didn't meet a love interest when I checked into the nut house.”
“He took it in his hands to save my life and i'll never forget him for it.”
“Making that record was one of the greatest musical moments in my life,”
“We don't know the extent of his injuries, but it's not life-threatening.”
“Despite such intense winds and powerful waves offshore, we experienced no loss of life or significant spills from any offshore well on the outer continental shelf,”
“Their results were pretty much in line, and after the shares hit life-time highs, people are cashing in after the results.”
“I actually find baseball kind of boring. It's not my life. Pitching is something I enjoy doing and I'm probably going to get a lot of people that are a little chapped at me for saying that, but just don't take it the wrong way.”
“I'm a lot more focused this year. I got a lot of things off my mind. The personal life is kind of straightened out a little bit. Sometimes you see the dark side of life, there's only one way to go, and that's up. I feel a lot better right now. My body feels better, and I'm ready to go.”
“It was the longest six, seven months of my life. It was draining.”
“Firemen can do almost everything. You already trust them in life-threatening situations; why not let them help you with your everyday problems, too?”
“Our life has been a whirlwind since we got back here [Tuesday]. We're enjoying the moment, but we're also very focused on the next task.”
“We are thrilled to introduce 'This is Your Life' to a whole
 new generation of ABC viewers, ... was more than just one of
 America's best-loved television shows; it became a cherished part
 of the American vernacular.”
“I had no idea he had the interesting life he had after tennis.”
“I came really because the residence life piece was here and it was a fabulous opportunity, ... I had the chance right out of grad school to supervise a group of individuals, have a pretty big role in discipline and the opportunity to work with outstanding live-in faculty.”
“I've had a very rewarding life. I'm a lucky guy.”
“I've had to live that way my entire life. Because of that, I've been able to separate the good from the bad, the true from the false, the winners from the losers, the champions from the also-rans.”
“Secondary metabolites are bioactive compounds that are only produced at select times during the life cycle of the organism.”
“This was the worst night of my life. We were really scared. We're getting no help. I know the military police are trying. But they're outnumbered.”
“It's my homage to small town America. It's a little slice of life,”
“We believe that all community efforts to nurture participation in the arts improve the quality of life for all members of our community.”
“Get them involved in how money is spent in real life.”
“This is the life we choose.”
“the extraordinary process called Life.”
“During his life, John made a difference. Through the Daily Light John Hicks Memorial Scholarship, John's legacy will continue to make a difference in the lives of those looking to follow in his footsteps by pursuing a degree in journalism.”
“The plates are just an obvious opportunity for people to encourage others to choose life.”
“He always liked to tell people he saved Brad Pitt's life.”
“It is seldom in life that one knows that a coming event is to be of crucial importance.”
“Life is not supposed to be forever, so we gotta enjoy it while we're here. If you don't have fun in life, it's passing you by.”
“Puck's been a fighter and a game-winner all his life. This sounds like a tough road to hoe now.”
“We encourage his participation and his input. It's his life.”
“The only thing I will always know more about than anyone else in the world is my own life. People do sort of want to hear about our lives, which for me was unusual to get accustomed to.”
“Probably at some point in time during your life a young man kind of matures a little bit. Probably that, in conjunction with going over to NFL Europe, being out on the street, kind of seeing what real life is and then coming in and having a chance.”
“Probably at some point in time during your life a young man kind of matures a little bit, ... Probably that, in conjunction with going over to NFL Europe, being out on the street, kind of seeing what real life is and then coming in and having a chance.”
“That's probably what saved his life.”
“Each child and family is unique. They have all brought rewarding and unique things to my life.”
“We've taken a potentially life-saving idea, applied our proprietary technology, and developed mobile phone- and Web-based software called ICE First to store and automatically update emergency contact and medical information. ICE First puts medical and emergency preparedness in the palm of your hand.”
“I'm real nervous. I've never been in this position in my life as a head coach. I just hope everything we've done in fall camp has led us up to this.”
“Philadelphia has everything we were looking for and more, ... A fascinating mixture of old and new, street life and high culture, a booming real estate market, accessibility, innovative technology, cutting-edge restaurants, theater and music.”
“I do because my father is connected, ... That's the team I've grown up with all my life. It's pretty much a family thing.”
“We're going to be talking to Egyptians in all walks of life, from civil society as well as political parties for their views, on how the election process unfolded.”
“It's gonna be such a memorable experience for the children. The memories will last a life time. It's just a great experience for them. We're just happy to be able to provide them.”
“He led a dizzying, confusing life. Dealing with the mainstream world was difficult. He was caught between American Indian systems, as it were, and the mainstream.”
“There is a kind of intellectual provincialism in the dogma that "life is just one damned thing after another." human affairs do not become intelligible until they are seen as a whole.”
“We are thrilled to introduce This is Your Life to a whole new generation of ABC viewers, ... was more than just one of America's best-loved television shows; it became a cherished part of the American vernacular.”
“I have found my life purpose. In a very tragic situation, I have found my life purpose.”
“May the Lord our God prepare us for every event then comes Life or Death - it is no great matter.”
“I've never seen anything like that in my life,”
“We condemn this most recent bombing of a mosque in Baghdad. There was significant loss of life.”
“I believe that he's going to continue to participate in political life. And that certainly his voice will continue to be heard in Canada.”
“I am here today as an American citizen and an engineer whose life has been devastated by that (H-1B) program.”
“take responsibility for decision-making and the life they want to have.”
“We certainly wish Mr. Martin well. And I believe that he's going to continue to participate in political life. We had a good working relationship with the prime minister.”
“To preserve an unclouded capacity for the enjoyment of life is an unusual moral and psychological achievement. Contrary to popular belief, it is not the prerogative of mindlessness, but the exact opposite: It is the reward of self-esteem.”
“I've been doing this all my life and I've seen frost cover the tops of six-inch plants or most of the tender parts, but these were completely covered. It was wild.”
“When you reach a point in your life and you know you want to meet someone who shares your religious or ethnic beliefs, this gives you another avenue to do so.”
“He wanted to make a difference on that, you know, make a difference from his life from the way he was to become someone that's a good contributing citizen that did something for his country as well as his family.”
“The United States clearly values innocent human life. And that is why we're fighting the war on terror.”
“I want my neighbor's life. I see my neighbor's bigger house and better vacations and better golden retriever, and conclude his life might be richer and more fulfilling than mine.”
“The mom's nutrition, what she's taking in, can have outcomes affecting the baby's life such as chronic diseases like diabetes.”
“Certainly, as anybody would, we mourn the loss of life in these kinds of situations. But, again, these are issues for the French people and the French government to address.”
“It's modeled after his life story, which is a story of a young man who sells drugs and (engages in) gang violence, and ultimately is successful with a rap career at the end of the movie,”
“I would love to have Alana for the rest of my life. I think I was just very fortunate to have her for four years. When you have someone that special to get to spend four years with, while helping them learn and grow, it is special. It was her time to go and it's someone else's time to shine. I don't think it's one person in particular but maybe just this team in general.”
“Oh, yes, ... It's life, isn't it?”
“an intrusion on our way of life.”
“The chief beneficiary of life insurance policies for young, single people is the life insurance agent.”
“The water table is so low. The smaller ones are drying up as the plants come to life and start to draw down the water. That's not good.”
“Inventory has become a life and death issue for our industry. The lesson of the last two quarters is that inventory has moved from being a concern of the purchasing segment to a concern of the industry itself.”
“We have to be fanatical about power consumption. It's not just about longer battery life, but when you look at rising oil prices, it becomes more and more important.”
“[After abandoning the upper-class life of a doctor, Simon has only one goal to protect his sister which often leads him to clash with the Serenity crew.] Simon's almost naive in a sense, ... They live in a world where people have to be selfish and fight for themselves. In that regard, he's toughened up by the crew.”
“When they all left and then all came back, I was never so delighted in my life.”
“There comes a point in life where we need to give back to the community. The backbone of the chamber is to give back.”
“In the past, our tradition was to rename parks only for an individual related to the life of the park.”
“This trip is a once-in-a-life-time opportunity and I cannot describe the excitement and anticipation I have.”
“We are thrilled to introduce 'This is Your Life' to a whole new generation of ABC viewers, ... was more than just one of America's best-loved television shows; it became a cherished part of the American vernacular.”
“If I punt in games the way I punted today, ... life will be good.”
“One of the best lessons I learned early is that not everything in life is about you. It is about service. If you want trips and excessive gifts, then don't get into public service.”
“He became a father-figure to me. He was a big part of my life.”
“When I got to 40 or so... I had the sense when I looked back over my life I would actually see a mess of decisions, a few of which I had thought about, some of which I had sort of stumbled on, and many that I had no control over whatsoever.”
“I am very disciplined in my life and very up front. It is the only way I can do it and do it well. I am up every day at 7, and I feed my kids, no matter how long the day was.”
“ a collection of masks, depicting historical figures in life and what I like to call the eternal repose.”
“Charlie would bring a little more life, because he's younger. He's younger and he has more spunk. He'd be excited and jacked out of his mind to play, so if he came in there, it would be just a different attitude in terms of excitement and energy level, because he's a young guy that would be getting a shot.”
“Why should one U.S. airman give up his life when our national security is not in imminent danger?”
“His mentality is very strong. That will help him adjust to MLB and the American life.”
“Life certainly points it out to you - 'you can go this way or the other way.' You have to decide and it's a very strong decision because, would you sleep well knowing that you're living in the best place, but you're letting the place where you should live alone?”
“In Mexico you have death very close. That's true for all human beings because it's a part of life, but in Mexico, death can be found in many things.”
“[Ancient Mars] is equivalent to what we find in the Andes at 20,000 feet. It's totally equivalent to life on Mars 3.5 billion years [ago].”
“Our hope is this will have a lasting positive impact on the quality of life in these areas.”
“That day changed my life,”
“Charlie would bring a little more life, because he's younger, ... He's younger and he has more spunk. He'd be excited and jacked out of his mind to play, so if he came in there, it would be just a different attitude in terms of excitement and energy level, because he's a young guy that would be getting a shot.”
“An Underground Life: Memoirs of a Gay Jew in Nazi Berlin.”
“Obviously, the worst loss is loss of life. We can't replace life. We can replace material goods, ... Nature is devastating. It was only three months ago that we were praying for rain, and now...we've got too much rain.”
“Allen deserves capital punishment because he was already serving a life sentence for murder when he masterminded the murders of three innocent young people and conspired to attack the heart of our criminal justice system.”
“Life isn't easy. We've all had situations where we needed emotional support from a friend. Consider if you did not have a friend to hold your hand when times got tough.”
“He's one of the best right-handed hitters I've ever seen in my life. His numbers talk for themselves. From the first day he came into the league, he created something new for the White Sox and baseball -- the numbers he put up, that many home runs, that many walks, you don't see that a lot. The consistency was outstanding, really professional. Day in and day out he produced and he was fun to play with, fun to watch hit.”
“Breathing is the essence of life.
Breathe deeply, live fully.”
“It was the first time Soviets and Americans got to hear uncensored discussions of real-life things about each other on television.”
“I learned a lesson. I never took a first shot at anybody in my life and now I feel like I took the first shot. I feel embarrassed, I feel guilty. I wish I had not said it the way it sounds or the way I said it.”
“Today was the first time in my life, the last two innings, my heart was pounding like crazy. I was so excited. So many people were waiting for this moment.”
“This is your life. Choose to live it to the fullest.”
“That's what frustrates me. We pass laws based on moral issues and don't look at what happens in real life.”
“I never in my life have been doping and never will.”
“Life went a-maying / With Nature, Hope, and Poesy, / When I was young!”
“It's a matter of life and death for this country, ... The Kenyan forests are facing extinction and it is a man-made problem.”
“The general public thinks somebody gets convicted of something like this, and they go off to prison for life.”
“Don't ever hesitate to give someone else life. It's a big step, it really is. It's a very big step, but you really don't know how that can help someone.”
“I think that the temptation to feel that your entire life has been wasted must be very great for a lot of Cubans.”
“I look at this as a second life. Every game feels like an event. Every pitch matters. I need that. It elevates your aggressiveness.”
“I've always said I'd like to dedicate my life to art for a whole year to see what comes out of it, painting, sculpting, everything related to art, then go from there. I feel like I have something with art. I'm connected with art somehow and I would like to do something with that.”
“The majority of my life has revolved around my tennis, so it is a very special honor to be elected ... especially when you look at all the great names of champions that have been elected over the years.”
“You treat characters like people you meet in life-friends or mentors.”
“Enjoy this time, man. This is the only time in your life you can even consider getting a woman to fool around with you in one of those little a** bunk beds.”
“We were on life support and now we're alive again.”
“Smoking calms me down. It?s enjoyable. I don?t want politicians deciding what is exciting in my life.”
“When you don't have a child to think about, life is a lot easier, but when you do, the thought process is a little different.”
“Change is the hardest thing, but it's just a thing. It's about exploring life and experiencing life anew. So take a step, and just do it.”
“It's not going to be as interesting a place. And, for the life of me, I don't know what to do.”
“The man who seeks one thing in life and but one May hope to achieve it before life is done; But he who seeks all things, wherever he goes Only reaps from the hopes which around him he sows A harvest of barren regrets”
“He has destroyed our family by this senseless killing, and has left a void in everyone's life.”
“[From this experience] the students have become more interested in life science, and now have an intimate involvement with vegetables. Some kids are out selling the vegetables? they could end up building a career through sustainable foods. From working together, these kids learn respect and tolerance for other cultures.”
“He's young and he's cocky, and then he grows up, ... My character learns a lot about life, that basketball isn't everything. I think this film touches upon how much you are willing to sacrifice for your desires, and as you grow older, how your desires and needs and wants change.”
“I recently decided that one of my goals in life, in terms of entertainment value, is to be better than cartoons. My sister told me the other day that my nephews think I am. They are ten and eleven.”
“National Breast Cancer Awareness Month reminds us all that when it comes to breast cancer, the difference between life and death for many women can be measured in a commitment to mammograms, self-exams, and regular doctor visits.”
“As a fighter, God is a very big part of my life. When I was sixteen I was shot accidentally and I could've died but the Lord gave me a second chance to comeback and show the world what I'm capable of doing. I'm just trying to fulfill my purpose of what he brought me here to do. I would like to go ahead and do well in my career and then head on over to the spiritual side where I can go into the church and start ministering to the people of the World.”
“We suffered no damage in these operations nor was there any collateral damage to civilian life or property.”
“Go Daddy is not just a job; it's a way of life. These people (employees) work hard, and offering great incentives is fun and productive for the company.”
“The pro-life movement is in the best position it has ever been in.”
“Think it not hard if you get not your will, nor your delights in this life; God will have you to rejoice in nothing but himself.”
“I have been a life-long fan and player of the sport. I've tried to create as many opportunities as possible for people to play the game. When I see people get excited about volleyball, it makes all of the time and effort truly worthwhile.”
“There are several ways you can blow off parts of your life. One of them is to not save documents on the computer; another is in a ceramics kiln.”
“Despite the malicious fallacies put forth by Life & Style magazine, the couple is looking forward to a long and happy life together as a family.”
“We each made two cards for him and let them go on balloons at his stone. He touched everyone's life who knew him.”
“I decided to come out because I fear for my life.”
“The Ministry is lending ears to all walks of life including the HIV infected, looking for room to improve the regulations.”
“If four guys are attacking you, you're going to fear for your life and you're going to want to defend yourself. That's a natural reaction.”
“Texas Rangers are perfect for comic books. They're so larger than life. Their mission statement is to help out in situations beyond the scope of normal law enforcement. If they have to suppress a riot they send one guy.”
“Real Life Drama: The Group Theater and America, 1931-1940.”
“You don't want to waste talent by getting in trouble on the streets and messing your life away by doing stupid things. That's the message: don't go out and do things that can hurt your team. That's what we did in the past.”
“In Greece, people have a quality of life. People here live beautifully.”
“I got out when I was 24. Back then, I had to get on with my life, get a real job.”
“If you attack stupidity you attack and entrenched interest with friends in government and every walk of public life, and you will make small progress against it”
“This is our life, looking for jobs. For the family, the children, our mothers and fathers. You know?”
“Our life has not dramatically changed because of this. Most workers, because we're focused on a 40-60 hour job, haven't had the time to look at it and analyze it.”
“The pressures here that year were probably as much as anything I had done in my life up to that point,”
“He was a tremendous observer of the idiocies of life and brought them brilliantly to the screen and the stage.”
“So different are the colors of life, as we look forward to the future, or backward to the past; and so different the opinions and sentiments which this contrariety of appearance naturally produces, that the conversation of the old and young ends generally with contempt or pity on either side.”
“Hong Kong players' unprecedented enthusiasm in the mainland's insurance sector is mainly due to the saturation of Hong Kong's life insurance market.”
“It's not only the most difficult decision I've made in my life, it's also the scariest. For half of my life, I've been doing this professionally. And for the other half of my life, I was doing everything I could to become a professional.”
“There is certainly no greater happiness than to be able to look back on a life usefully and virtuously employed, to trace our own progress in existence by such tokens as excite neither shame nor sorrow.”
“I'm amazed. I don't know if she saved my life, but I have a lot more respect for my cat.”
“He played better than I did. He hit the ball better, putted better. He's played here his whole life. I just tried to make a bunch of pars coming in.”
“Those who attain any excellence commonly spend life in one pursuit; for excellence is not often granted upon easier terms.”
“Money and time are the heaviest burdens in life: and among mortals, those who are most unhappy are the ones who have more than they need.”
“It stands for the big three in my life. God, me and family.”
“Prudence keeps life safe, but it does not often make it happy.”
“Love has no great influences upon the sum of life.”
“She's nervous about the beginning of a trial, like anyone does who's going on trial for her life.”
“Complexity in the IT environment is a fact of life. Our push toward dynamic systems will have broad impact and help customers to not only manage this more efficiently but also harness the power of IT as a strategic asset.”
“I love my life right now. I am back performing and I have a family. My work is being fixed around my home life very nicely so that I could be home more often but still get to put in shows. My daughter has a birthday coming up pretty soon and I am going to be home to celebrate with my baby.”
“I look at this as a second life, if you will. I needed the intensity aspect of every pitch matters, ... Every game feels like an event, a playoff kinda game. Having experienced that a few times, I think I not only like it but I need it.”
“If . . . I had no duties, and no reference to futurity, I would spend my life in driving briskly in a post-chaise with a pretty woman.”
“I am sorry I have not learnt to play at cards. It is very useful in life: it generates kindness, and consolidates society.”
“My work has really involved a means to which I can tell a collection of similar life stories that together can impact other lives and perhaps policies that affect those lives to make them better.”
“I've had to deal with that all my life. Everywhere I go, people doubt me just because of the way I look. But I just use it as motivation. I love to compete.”
“Life is a progress from want to want, not from enjoyment to enjoyment.”
“She is a good mother. These kids are her life.”
“I don't like the dislocation of being away for months at a time. It's not conducive to having a life.”
“Life will not bear refinement. You must do as other people do.”
“He is a benefactor of mankind who contracts the great rules of life into short sentences, that may be easily impressed on the memory, and so recur habitually to the mind.”
“In the past, a single fragrance had a life cycle of maybe six to seven years, because people would stay loyal to a scent for a longer period of time. The life cycle is much shorter now, especially with the younger consumers, who always want the latest product.”
“A book should teach us to enjoy life, or to endure it.”
“When men come to like a sea-life, they are not fit to live on land.”
“He was a serious competitor. A good sportsman who spent a lot of his life working and building a business.”
“I think also there was a lot of coming to terms with where I am in life, where I fit in as a gay man in America, and getting more comfortable with who I am.”
“He is on the life support system in the intensive care unit. The bleeding from the liver seems to have slowed down but the kidney function remains poor.”
“He may justly be numbered among the benefactors of mankind, who contracts the great rules of life into short sentences, that may early be impressed on the memory, and taught by frequent recollection to occur habitually to the mind.”
“There mark what ills the scholar's life assail, toil, envy, want, and patron.”
“Surely a long life must be somewhat tedious, since we are forced to call in so many trifling things to help rid us of our time, which will never return.”
“That part is not based on my life. That's just my nightmare, but I'm divorced. I have kids. My kids are part of L.A. private school system in that way, so a lot of the circumstances are the same. Most of the particulars are made up, but I do have a very civilized divorce with my ex-husband and so that was sort of the genesis of the idea.”
“Sings. Hope in every sphere of life is a privilege that attaches to action. No action, no hope.”
“The book that I'm writing - it's to do with my life as a musician and writer and the spiritual side of my life.”
“From the middle of life onward, only he remains vitally alive who is ready to die with life.”
“Little would be wanting to the happiness of life, if every man could conform to the right as soon as he was shown it”
“The women in his life — no pun intended — gave him a very broad view on humanity.”
“The happiest part of a man's life is what he passes lying awake in bed in the morning”
“Almost every man wastes part of his life in attempts to display qualities which he does not possess, and to gain applause which he cannot keep”
“The kids that are out there doing this stuff to each other -- it's an awful waste of life and potential. It's terrible.”
“I used to live too much of my life worrying about what other people thought, ... My dark and introspective life was solitary. It was valid, (but now) I finally feel like I have a family. I'm integrated. My friends are really important to me, and they have a lot to do with why this record is so (expletive) cool.”
“I have the trust of my teammates and my coaches. That's the way it's been all my life. I've had to prove people wrong. I caught a bunch of deep balls last year. It's just a matter of settling in with it.”
“Nobody can write the life of a man, but those who have eat and drunk and lived in social intercourse with him”
“In a blink of an eye, that bullet ripped across his spinal cord and changed this kid's life.”
“Some desire is necessary to keep life in motion; and he whose real wants are supplied, must admit those of fancy”
“When we look at what Kenny Miller has done, it's a perfect illustration of the striker's life. In the games he has played since I have been in charge I thought he performed well but got no credit. Now he's performing well and getting credit. It's just the way it goes in that position.”
“Human life is everywhere a state in which much is to be endured and little to be enjoyed”
“Hides from himself his state, and shuns to know That life protracted is protracted woe”
“If one was to think constantly of death, the business of life would stand still”
“I have found it is much easier to make a success in life than to make a success of one's life.”
“Sound, sound the clarion, fill the fife! To all the sensual world proclaim. One crowded hour of glorious life is worth an age without a name.”
“It's strange in a sense that you spend your whole life in one routine and now it's kind of up in the air,”
“This is one of the best feelings I've ever had in my life.”
“Those who have any intention of deviating from the beaten roads of life, and acquiring a reputation superior to names hourly swept away by time among the refuse of fame, should add to their reason and their spirit the power of persisting in their pur”
“To me - the choice of life is become less important; I hope hereafter to think only on the choice of eternity”
“There is no easy path leading out of life, and few easy ones that lie within it”
“One little mistake can change your whole life. You have to keep that in mind.”
“I am trying to ask them to ask the deeper questions in life. The one major theme is sacrifice. They know they have to make a sacrifice.”
“The people of Northern Ireland and people throughout the United Kingdom want to celebrate George's life in a positive way. He has been one of the greatest footballers that ever lived.”
“I've never had a game like this in my life. All credit goes to my receivers. They just ran great routes, and when I had to scramble, they found ways to get open.”
“Money and time are the heaviest burdens of life, and the unhappiest of all mortals are those who have more of either than they know how to use”
“Those that have done nothing in life, are not qualified to judge of those that have done little”
“The people of Northern Ireland and people throughout the United Kingdom want to celebrate George's life in a positive way, ... He has been one of the greatest footballers that ever lived.”
“I want to teach them to understand life through stories. To see the character traits of the heroes. The things the hero does. And take those traits and apply them to life.”
“Getting money is not all a man's business: to cultivate kindness is a valuable part of the business of life”
“It is clear that George's life has meant a lot to a lot of people in Northern Ireland,”
“With the best match of my life, I'm not sure if I could beat Grayson - he's that good. But again, I know I did the best I could in both of those matches.”
“It changed my life. Because, you know, that's why God is so powerful. He lives. I couldn't have wrote that script. That was bigger than mankind [smiles]. When things happen like that, you know that God is involved. I'm jus thankful He allowed me the courage to really feel in my heart and to really believe in what I said. And then to go out there and knock this guy out two rounds later, oh my God, and I told the world at the Ruiz press conference, I told the world, I want your legacy to be intact when I knock you out. When am I gonna get my shot at history Roy? You have to really go back and recognize the power, the power of the mind, and a vision. I had that vision. And I never let it go. I didn't care what the politics said, what the sportswriters wrote, I never lost my vision and that's why I went in there and did my thing.”
“I've never been more proud of anyone my whole life. I've seen her go through so many hardships and so many ups and downs and to finally come at the end of the season and finally get her 1,000th point. I think to end with a championship and a win is the best possible reward she could possibly have.”
“Many of these Skills for Life qualifications are at level 2 and many of them are being gained by 16- to 18-year-olds in college.”
“It's not just leaving my family and friends. It's the thought of leaving what has been your whole life. But, at the same time it's exciting to start a whole new life.”
“Stern had the game of his life.”
“I expect to have a strong connection to Vail for the rest of my life.”
“The younger guys looked like they had life on Monday. They were hungry. In preseason they were hungry, but now it's different. They didn't know what to expect. Now they just want to get after people. They just want to get that next win.”
“She told me, 'I am not going to allow you to let your life go to waste.' She saw something that I did not see,”
“There are multitudes whose life is nothing but a continuous lottery; who are always within a few months of plenty and happiness, and how often soever they are mocked with blanks, expect a prize from the next adventure”
“He became more reflective and chose to live life with much more solitude. His passion for fishing grew more intense.”
“In the decline of life shame and grief are of short duration; whether it be that we bear easily what we have borne long; or that, finding ourselves in age less regarded, we less regard others; or, that we look with slight regard upon afflictions to w”
“Clearly they are enjoying a nice friendship together. But Nicole's personal life is her personal life and I have no further knowledge of their friendship.”
“the Hispanic community now plays a leading role in the nation's economic, social and political life, and this summit recognizes that growing influence. As the highest-ranking Hispanic in Congressional history, I am honored to be joined by so many colleagues in working to better arm our community for success in the 21st century.”
“It is natural for every man uninstructed to murmur at his condition, because, in the general infelicity of life, he feels his own miseries without knowing that they are common to all the rest of the species”
“What I like about Bob is that he's given his whole life to the city. That's a fact,”
“Surely life, if it be not long, is tedious, since we are forced to call in the assistance of so many trifles to rid us of our time, of that time which never can return”
“It's part of the circle of life.”
“Put real life in perspective... I am not in awe by the media or HBO... they are the ones that have made Roy Jones into some kind of icon... they have blown him up... well I am the one who popped that balloon.”
“She's his own daughter. He (his father) is in recovery, but at the very least, she has shortened his life.”
“I started to use mountain climbing as a metaphor for what life with MS is like. We can't always do what we want when we want. When conditions mandate, we take a little longer, try a little harder and dig a little deeper.”
“He cared very much about sharks. He spent most of his life trying to explain to people that if you are in the ocean, you?re in the shark?s territory, so it behooves you to take precautions.”
“I have always believed that there is a need for life-affirming films.”
“Is the nature of men such, that they can reject miracle, and at the great moments of their life, the moments of their deepest, most agonising spiritual difficulties, cling only to the free verdict of the heart? Oh, Thou didst know that Thy deed would be recorded in books, would be handed down to remote times and the utmost ends of the earth, and Thou didst hope that man, following Thee, would cling to God and not ask for a miracle. But Thou didst not know that when man rejects miracle he rejects God too; for man seeks not so much God as the miraculous. And as man cannot bear to be without the miraculous, he will create new miracles of his own for himself, and will worship deeds of sorcery and witchcraft, though he might be a hundred times over a rebel, heretic and infidel.”
“In 2006, death is not a part of everyday life here. In the 19th century, people died at home, their funeral was at home. Not that they were less sad, but they were not as afraid of it as we are now.”
“As a seagoing oceanographer, it has changed my life.”
“It was truly our privilege. We share a bond that is truly life-changing.”
“I didn't bet at that time in my life. I have no problem wagering on the game now.”
“The life of man is a journey; a journey that must be traveled, however bad the roads or the accommodation.”
“People seek within a short span of life to satisfy a thousand desires, each of which is insatiable.”
“Where else can they make such a big deal about Kenny Rogers? It just tells you what an unreal life we're living. Kenny Rogers! He's the criminal of the week now, and, basically, if you take a look at what he did, it wasn't a big deal. That's the beauty of it: We can take any molehill and turn it into a mountain, and it's great fodder for at least a few days.”
“The movie did a great job depicting the crazy run I had in my life.”
“Music was a very vibrant ingredient in my life, and I originally saw my early plays as being a format for music.”
“I was a rookie at this. I had never been to an auction in my life.”
“I feel bad that he got life because I truly believe he was forced into it, but I guess the verdict is the verdict,”
“I know John felt that he learned a lot of things playing football that served him well in his life. The opportunity to have an impact on others was a big part of why he went into coaching.”
“It was a homogeneous 'Leave it to Beaver' life. Mom was Mrs. Cleaver.”
“Life is really good for him.”
“Every actor looks all his life for a part that will combine his talents with his personality, ... 'The Odd Couple' was mine. That was the plutonium I needed. It all started happening after that.”
“Life was just has hard, if not harder, for women in small (fishing) towns. Men went off to sea, (women) did everything else. They made the culture; they raised the kids.”
“We want to introduce women to the game and keep them in the game for life, and for business as well.”
“It's unbelievable how life is, but I'm sure they're preparing like we did. We felt good going into the Princeton game without J.T. and I'm sure they feel good coming into this game.”
“Anne was one of the finest people I've ever known in my life. This is a great loss for her family and for the town.”
“If this is not addressed, it will pervade into adult life.”
“We put life jackets on the fourth floor of the EOC and tethered boats to the roof.”
“March of the Penguins is a unique film in part because it is an unprecedented look at a real-life phenomenon. And it anthropomorphizes these animals, and that is a tremendous selling point. And penguins are amusing.”
“This is really the greatest blow I have had in my life,”
“He could have come home and practiced law for the rest of his life and he'd never have forgiven himself. He'd have been very resentful. (Politics) is his dream, his passion.”
“Time doesn't matter. The real resource that we must not squander is life, not time.”
“The idea was to present different aspects of the life of Russian Jewry in New York, and in different time periods.”
“Americans are increasingly discovering a direct connection between the quality of their diet and the quality of their life. The growing interest in high quality food is enticing more consumers to take their first bite of deliciously healthy bison meat.”
“At CPAC, we teach life skills, not just singing and dancing, which guide our students to become caring members of their communities, no matter what their chosen careers. We hope this recognition will help us gain the financial and community support we need to expand our programs to more of Hawaii's children.”
“Regenerative medicine is pro-life and pro-family. It enhances, it does not diminish human life. ... If encouraged to flourish, it can improve the life of millions of Americans and could lead to new scientific frontiers not now in sight. So I urge my colleagues in the Senate and the American public to support this bill that opposes human cloning but promotes regenerative medicine using nuclear transplantation.”
“I come to this issue with a strong pro-life, pro-family record. But I also strongly believe that a critical part of being pro-life is to support measures that help the living,”
“ March of the Penguins is a unique film in part because it is an unprecedented look at a real-life phenomenon, ... And it anthropomorphizes these animals, and that is a tremendous selling point. And penguins are amusing.”
“There's an insensitivity to life in our society today,”
“The Federal government does not have any information about extraterrestrial life to conceal, and there are no secret projects for me to investigate.”
“We're expecting at least 160 people this year. This is a life-changing experience for them ... some have never been on a plane, never been in a hotel or near the water. They come as far as Alaska and Hawaii to get here.”
“He deserves another step in his life. It's just another step.”
“KATHY GRIFFIN: MY LIFE ON THE D-LIST ... To Kathy Griffin. Warmest wishes, Renee Zellweger.”
“All right, every day ain't going to be the best day of your life, don't worry about that. If you stick to it you hold the possibility open that you will have better days.”
“It's going to be a year in the writing life, Jan. 1 to Dec. 31. We're having a blast with it, posting and responding to readers every day. It's a good record of the book tour we're on and the writing we're doing, but it's also taking on a life of its own.”
“There is no justification for such violence and loss of life.”
“It sometimes can backfire and make life more complicated.”
“If [an embryo is] a life, we should treat it as such and not some sort of medical commodity,”
“The priority is to help people return to their way of life, to return to their homes and their communities.”
“Is it a life?”
“The contentious debate since 1973 over the culture of life has proven that the American public, the democratic process and ultimately the federal judiciary itself have been poorly served by the Supreme Court's breathtaking intervention into and circumvention of the public debate about abortion,”
“To have my whole family there and my grandkids, it was one of the greatest nights of my life. You can't duplicate that. This has been the greatest job in the world.”
“I'm pro-life and if a woman decides not to abort her fetus with this information, that would certainly be fine by me,”
“We should not rush this debate, ... If we do not rush to kill innocent human life, we will find ethical, moral ways of solving this issue.”
“We're ignorant of life in the universe. We only have one planet that serves as an example and in science it's not good to derive information from a sample size of one.”
“It was a crazy inning. It was good for my life and my baseball history.”
“Kids masturbate. It might not be a comfortable subject to talk about with them, but it's a fact of life. Sex won't kill them, but some of the things they do along with it can kill.”
“I would argue that the left has had a litmus test all along that a nominee can't be pro-life. Roe is bad law,”
“The Moon and Mars were the two most likely candidates for life in the solar system; what exists beyond our solar system is mere guesswork.”
“My bullpen and the first inning, everything was down and had life on it. Something happened in the second inning where I was rushing the plate and everything was up in the zone, away. I was having a hard time locating. I was pretty fortunate to get out of there with only two runs.”
“They've given me back a life that I had no idea that I had lost -- I was so in the dark.”
“My private life has nothing to do with my films.”
“Maybe it's sheer athleticism, but that's not quite it. Aspen kids are on skis for so much of their life. When they put on jumping skis, they are just big skis. They are not intimidated and handle it beautifully. They are fearless.”
“Therefore, sins of sex are punished in this life to a greater degree than some other sins.”
“It's a fact of life that Americans are responding to and getting used to,”
“We, as obviously everybody, are very concerned about the developments in Mauritania and in particular about the loss of life in the Atlantic Ocean between Mauritania and the Canary Islands.”
“If we knew exactly what animal life was like before the fall into sin and knew what nature was like before the law of entropy invaded it, we would already be living in heaven.”
“Every experience in life, everything with which we have come in contact in life, is a chisel which has been cutting away at our life statue, molding, modifying, shaping it. We are part of all we have met. Everything we have seen, heard, felt or thought has had its hand in molding us, shaping us.”
“There has always been a trade off between battery life and performance, and while dual core doesn't close the gap, it significantly narrows it.”
“If we put the emphasis upon the right things, if we live the life that is worth while and then fail, we will survive all disasters, we will out-live all misfortune. We should be so well balanced and symmetrical, that nothing which could ever happen could throw us off our center, so that no matter what misfortune should overtake us, there would still be a whole magnificent man or woman left after being stripped of everything else.”
“Lincoln Re is an excellent strategic fit with our plans to expand our life and health reinsurance business globally and to further strengthen our leading life and health reinsurance business in North America.”
“He's the biggest man I've ever seen in my life. He comes in and gives us a big boost off the bench. We've played teams where they'd literally drive in and turn around.”
“One life has been lost. I ask you not to destroy another.”
“Biggest person I've ever met in my life.”
“You want technology to support your life, not run it. The problem is not that the cell phone rings, but the problem is that we answer it when we shouldn't.”
“I never thought there could be so much life in a funeral home.”
“I have never been more terrified in my life than when Dick Cheney whipped out that gun. I was sure I was a goner.”
“My ultimate goal in life is to have my own insurance company. I still want to play basketball at some level after college.”
“The things I learned from the army - and I think it was a lesson for life - was how to work in unison with other people. How to take responsibility.”
“If a fool be associated with a wise man even all his life, he will perceive the truth as little as a spoon perceives the taste of soup.”
“The people who recover actually do pretty well in life,”
“For us, it's just everyday life.”
“I've met a lot of people in my life, but I've never met anyone like this little boy, who seemed to come from another world.”
“Benjamin Franklin: An American Life”
“I'm very unselfish. It's been my mentality all my life.”
“Coach L was with me through the most trying time of my life. He was just there for me in the worst times of my career and also the best times. He is a great man, one of the most influential people in my basketball career and life, even though he may not know that.”
“Some have lost their jobs, home and insurance. And all the while they have a child with a life-threatening disease.”
“That's why life is so much fun and I have such a good time.”
“Alas! Alas! Life is full of disappointments; as one reaches one ridge there is always another and a higher one beyond which blocks the view.”
“The more choices -- the more opportunities, the better life for patients is going to be.”
“an exciting new prospect for what I want to do with the next phase of my life.”
“There have been two great accidents in my life. One was the trolley, and the other was Diego. Diego was by far the worst.”
“What this is really telling us is that life is a unified process. It's not just a group of DNA bases, but it's also the physical environment in which they exist. Later on, as life became more evolved, there were other ways to achieve genetic stability. But at first, it simply may not have been possible without water.”
“No matter what it is in life, you make mistakes and move on,”
“I reckon being ill as one of the great pleasures of life, provided one is not too ill and is not obliged to work till one is better”
“Life is too brief. I had a friend whom I intended to know better. Yesterday he died.”
“Life in Slow Motion”
“I get into character and I tell them what my life is like as a pioneer woman. I never break character. When the kids talk about modern-day things like television, radios and computers, I ask them what those things are. The kids love it; they play right along.”
“Gold is the soul of all civil life, that can resolve all things into itself, and turn itself into all things”
“It's obvious. That's where life comes from.”
“The most momentous thing in human life is the art of winning the soul to good or evil.”
“Natural amiableness is too often seen in company with sloth, with uselessness, with the vanity of fashionable life.”
“When I left prison almost two years ago, I hoped that I could start my life anew again, ... And I'm now of the belief that I may never be able to do so. I just do not know what it's going to take to make this matter end.”
“It is celebration time for us as we are completing 25 years of our political life.”
“Life itself is short, but lasts longer than misfortunes.”
“We continue to be amazed at the life of this extraordinary man. He has been a staunch supporter of the Gay Games for more than a decade and we are grateful for his continued support as the Gay Games returns to U.S. for the first time in 12 years.”
“We're in a point in life that we can have entertainment anywhere --- at any time. We're so incredibly lucky to be in an industry that touches people in so many ways.”
“We want to give them solid grounding in biology, conservation and life skills.”
“Life is the art of drawing sufficient conclusions from insufficient premises.”
“I said I didn't want to spend most of my life in Holidays Inns, but I've checked and they've all been redecorated. They're marvelous places to stay and I've thought it over and that's where I'd like to be.”
“It was one that came from real life. I was having trouble getting through to a fellow cartoonist. He kept blowing me off, and I said those words on the phone.”
“To wait for someone else, or to expect someone else to make my life richer, or fuller, or more satisfying, puts me in a constant state of suspension.”
“Deciding to pursue watercolor painting after I retired has made a considerable difference in my life. I find it challenging (which is good for me) and fun (which is also good for me). Having lessons with Odie McReynolds and getting involved with the Ground Floor Studio painting group was a good move. We support each other and critique each other's work - we constantly learn from each other. The individuals in the group are very different with very different painting styles but we have found that we are compatible. The love of creating is a great common bond.”
“We were promised a simpler life, and technology has only complicated our lives.”
“Most of his best ideas for his stories come from things that happened in real life.”
“I should have helped in some way. I should have put my life on the line.”
“The double plays saved my life today.”
“I was doing bad movies as a day job. And it almost ruined my life for a while. But I have done 130-odd films, and only fourteen have been spooky ones. I'm not spooky! I want life!”
“It's better to get mugged than to live a life of fear.”
“It's a natural, undisturbed trail, ... People can enjoy the different kinds of trees, plant and animal life, the stream and the bog it runs by.”
“Today, the house reflects a military headquarters, not Dutch family life, ... It is very stark. You can pack quickly and put it on the back of a wagon. The seagrass mats on the floor of the aides-de-camp room became packing material.”
“There's life after 401(k).”
“It's devotional, like, 'Let's talk more about what Jesus said.' But how do we actually apply that to someone's life?”
“You can have the same kind of influence on your life whether you're running a gas station or you're CEO of a company.”
“My biggest concern is the loss of life. We have a lot of people down there hiding in their attics, and I don't know if we will get to them fast enough.”
“There are some people who don't want to think about teenagers having sex at all, in real life or in literature, ... Some parents don't want their kids reading about gay and lesbian characters.”
“The life insurance industry squandered its leadership. It failed to recognize fundamental changes in the marketplace.”
“He's a bright young man. He would have done well in the college environment. He's learning what the professional life is all about. I expect him to do well. His body hasn't even matured. He has a great attitude.”
“There is a generational shift. Parents want to blend a child-centered life with an adult-centered life. They see the city as a place to stay rather than to leave.”
“The situation for Japan's life insurers raised concerns about the financial sector in general, as well as the implications it could have for the Japanese economy,”
“This industry has been really good to me. It's been a great life. I'm not through yet. I'm ready when you are, Mr. DeMille.”
“I just kind of keep track of the dogs that are in all the animal shelters. They (Friends for Life) seemed like they needed a donation.”
“He's been on the bubble with us. I think he's turned his personal life around. He's played himself out of the doghouse.”
“My goal is to make as many films as possible about different aspects of American life.”
“My balls were moving, I had life on the fastball, and I was jamming them pretty much for most of the night. A couple of pitches they took advantage of, and that wasn't even the home runs. Those were just singles.”
“Two thousand years ago there was One here on this earth who lived the grandest life that ever has been lived yet/a life that every thinking man, with deeper or shallower meaning, has agreed to call divine.”
“I care for you, ... I want to make life safer and better for you.”
“[Life expectancy for people with FOP is] tremendously variable, ... The average life span is mid-40s, but it ranges from the teens to the 80s.”
“Men who are engaged in public life must necessarily aim at reducing opposition to a minimum, and one of the most obvious means to that end is by misrepresenting, discrediting or ruining their opponents.”
“Life is not a set campaign, but an irregular work, and the main forces in it are not overt resolutions, but latent and half-involuntary promptings”
“I'm definitely pro-life; I don't really parallel that with my feminist approach or whatever. I think that there are women out there who believe strongly that they have a choice to whether or not they would have an abortion, but I think there are women out there who strongly believe that having an abortion is wrong ... You can find feminists on both sides.”
“We are pleased to welcome Sun Life Financial as our newest Partner Carrier. Throughout our discussions, the Sun Life Financial team has demonstrated a clear understanding of the needs of our Member Firms and their affluent clients. They stand ready to provide the products - including proprietary offerings - and service required to earn business from our Member Firms.”
“Would you please just give in and let the baby go, give her a chance at life. There's a better way out of this.”
“It's very alluring. When they take these classes, women have a secret life no one knows about. They feel more confident. They walk with a little more sass in their step. That translates into more sensuality in the bedroom.”
“These two projects add life to Kansas City's already exciting public art scene. The vitality and energy of this work will energize downtown Kansas City for years to come.”
“I saw, for the first time in my life, two or three young white women smoking tobacco in clay pipes. From their manner it was evidently a well-formed habit, and one which they did not suspect there was occasion for them to practice clandestinely, or be ashamed of.”
“became a way of life.”
“I've tried to live without fear. Fear paralyzes you. I've tried to get on with my life.”
“to make convincing such a huge change in a single human life.”
“I feel like my life is back the way it should be.”
“He was my whole life.”
“You can be involved and not have ever thought about science or invention in your life. You can have a lot of fun.”
“It was an opportunity to spend time with my family and live a normal life back in Australia, ... When you?re traveling a lot, you hope for some time off, but having that amount of time off from the game, you realize how much you miss it. I have to admit that.”
“In life go straight and turn right...”
“But Palm Sunday tells us that … it is the cross that is the true tree of life.”
“Personally witnessed vignettes and variations of everyday life wherever it occurred.”
“When you see what happens, you have more of an appreciation of life and how good it really is.”
“I hope that it can illuminate our Christian life.”
“It is of great concern that the fabric of African life, its very source of hope and stability, is threatened by divorce, abortion, prostitution, human trafficking and a contraceptive mentality, all of which contribute to a breakdown in sexual morality.”
“It requires us to recognize and protect the sanctity of life from the first moment of conception until natural death. It requires us to acknowledge the indispensable role of stable marriage and family life for the good of society.”
“So I went forward in my life, and thanks to God, the Lord has always taken me by the hand, guided me even in difficult situations.”
“Either we make him a simple devout expression, or he is denied everything, he is banished from public life, thus losing all meaning.”
“I'm happy to be involved with something that hopefully will have a big impact on our quality of life.”
“They are candidly pleading for the very life of their daughter.”
“Our social life has definitely picked up.”
“As notebook PCs become ubiquitous for computing, entertainment, and communication, the need for improved visual performance and longer battery life become paramount, ... The innovations by BOE HYDIS clearly point to a future where brighter, higher contrast, and wider viewing angle displays are possible while keeping both the cost and power consumption down.”
“There is no other time in a woman's life when she needs to be quite as smart as when she is looking after young children.”
“You get a concussion. It could take 30, 40 days until that starts to come to life where you're in agony. Ask any doctor.”
“If the opportunity arises, take it. Because our motto is Life is too short.' Life is so short. We wish we were 20 years younger right now.”
“Now you can begin to see quite transparently that nothing purchased life is one of argument, If other people don't agree with you you're in big trouble. How far would you get in your work if nobody agreed that what you were doing had value?”
“I was already set for life when I met her.”
“(Strickland) was scrambling for his life the whole game. But he found his guys and they kept going. We did a lot of things wrong and there's going to be some changes made.”
“I'm not the type to sit on the porch and watch life go by.”
“You just never know where life is going to take you, you never know where your talent level is going to be and timing is everything.”
“I wanted to give her a normal life. I loved her. You know, it tore my heart out.”
“I am who I am in no small part because of the role she has played in my life — both as a coach and as a person. I feel a great sense of responsibility to carry on her legacy at LSU.”
“O beautiful for heroes proved in liberating strife, who more than self their country loved, and mercy more than life!”
“She took basically a year and a half of my life away, and I didn't know if I would ever be able to stand up for a few years.”
“Life is too challenging for external rewards to sustain us.”
“She accepts anything that life throws at her. She's way stronger than people think she is. Is it painful for her? Yes, of course it is.”
“The timing couldn't have been worse, basically, ... I was playing the best tennis of my life. I was struck down with quite an unusual illness.”
“This is a day you hope never comes as a coach. I am trying to express how important life is.”
“Our goal is to help everyone be involved in the full life of the church, not just Sunday morning services.”
“Everything in life has an opposite. While one brings devastation; the other brings peace.”
“These tales will tell the truth about The Life; the sex, guns and cash; the brutal highs and short lives of the players on the streets.”
“He's seen our program and he's seen us grow and what God is doing with my life.”
“was profoundly saddened to learn of the massive loss of life and destruction caused by a series of earthquakes and tidal waves across Southeast Asia today.”
“He was honestly the greatest guy I have ever known in my life. I was so in love with him. And this is the hardest thing I have ever dealt with, if you can even say that I'm dealing with it.”
“I can't for the life of me see any issue here.”
“That way, when you leave here, you have all the confidence you have the skills you need. It's real-life activities.”
“My life. The life I'm living that's where all my inspiration comes from. Real life experiences.”
“In October through to November 2004 he met a group who changed his life. He became a man I didn't recognize. I have no doubt his mind was twisted in there,”
“They have no idea at this point what took this man's life. There are additional forensic tests that must be completed.”
“By approving these measures, Congress is taking important steps to put an end to the senseless loss of life of our children in preventable auto incidents.”
“Last year was last year. There's always life lessons in things like that, and we just had to get over the bumps and play our game. And now, we are playing our game.”
“It's a very important message. It's about seizing the moments in life.”
“To pull that away requires creating a whole new life. There isn't any medication that is going to do that for them. There are so many personal and social things. You are basically creating a whole new life. You've been living a lie for years. You've been living under enormous amounts of stress, even if you all of a sudden stop the gambling, that's essential, but that just allows you to proceed with everything else you have to do.”
“I bring the same environmental ethic to private practice I brought to public life. There are even projects that meet the requirements of regulation that I'm going to be uncomfortable working on and that I won't work on.”
“The one thing about being sick and being ill with a disease that could take your life is that you really learn not to be looking backwards. Just look forward,”
“People from there can adapt to city life, and people here who have never been in the southern part of the country will have a chance to get beyond the preconceptions they've been given,”
“With any addiction like gambling, it becomes the central feature of the person's life. Everything else hangs on it.”
“Take the Field is one of the most innovative and wonderful ideas of my life in the city. And it doesn't happen without Bob. At a time in his life when he could have just sat back and enjoyed everything he had accomplished he went to work.”
“[During Gurley Brown's time, the Cosmo reader] was probably gutsier in her imagination than she was in her real life, ... What she wants are the strategies that allow her to carve out a life for herself, but with all the nuances.”
“I've been working my whole life for this moment and I feel like I have just cashed in. He may not have been in top for coming back from injury and I've been playing a lot and feeling confident, my body's been feeling fit and rested, so I think a combination of those factors, I think I cashed in on a bit of a lottery ticket, I guess.”
“Some students are predisposed to folding their tents and it comes to be another chapter in their life of disappointments [when they don't make the cut]. Not making it can damage or violate someone's sense of self.”
“In his life, as in his death, my father was determined to show the world things that some were afraid to see and others wished they could ignore.”
“It's my journey back into his life -- the man I idolized but hardly knew.”
“Life will never get in the way of sports again.”
“We should avoid this at all cost so that our life becomes full of happiness and joy.”
“Maybe he's made a mistake; we all make mistakes in this life, but if you look at his accomplishments as a basketball coach and his contributions to the game of college basketball, I don't think there's any question he should be in the Hall of Fame.”
“Behavioral economics tells us that when people say they can't afford life insurance, even when they admit they don't have enough, there's more to it than a straight budget calculation. The negative feelings of 'losing' the premium for more insurance are often a lot stronger than the positive feelings of buying the needed protection.”
“Life in us is like the water in a river that eventually runs out.”
“The world owes its survival to Sun. There would have been no life if Sun were not there. ”
“A man, who is well armed for the battle of life i.e. possesses good qualities, becomes successful and prosperous. Such a man experiences the real happiness. ”
“Sidney has made it very clear to us that he is committed to turning both his life and his career around. He's a tremendous talent who has made mistakes, but he's been making huge strides in trying to return himself to a much better quality of life.”
“May we live the best life in this world.”
“Human life is precious and one should just not waste it by idling away his time.”
“That's why it's called the leaf of life, and seen as an important symbol. It only needs water and it will stay alive.”
“Believe it or not, people experience the same things when it comes to buying life insurance - or making any big financial decision. It's just not on national TV and it's not nearly as dramatic. Sadly, many people just put off making any decision, sometimes until it's too late.”
“Becoming artistic director at L.A. Opera feels less like a major change in my life there than a kind of upgrading,”
“I need to tell you about Amadou and his sweet soul so that his life and memory will have meaning to those who only know about him through some newspaper articles,”
“I'd like Jennifer Lopez to play me in a film of my life”
“You keep the fast to please Allah, but slay life for your relish..But you do not reflect on the Lord, Who is within you”
“We wouldn't be spending $2 billion if we intended to shut down. We need a 30-year mine life to pay off those investments. We fully intend to keep operating. That's what pays for cleanup.”
“Given that there is no evidence this man has ever lost his cool in his adult life, I don't think they are going to lay a finger on him.”
“This will provide a glimpse of what life was like in the Negro Leagues.”
“The best idea for extending life beyond two gyros is to get up there with the shuttle and service it. And that's what we're working on,”
“The projected life of Hubble batteries has been extended. We used to say we thought they were good until 2008-2009. Now we're thinking 2010. We think Hubble will remain serviceable until well into 2010…based on latest projections and test data we have.”
“She's a great model. If she's ruining her personal life, that belongs to her ... I find it unbearable that maybe someone shot her, stole the photos and sold them ...”
“Free is very difficult to compete with. Certainly, life has become more interesting and challenging for the telecom companies.”
“He had two things in his life -- his work and his family. He was always designing things, even when we went on vacation when we were kids. He was a true design engineer.”
“It's his life. At 29, this is his last chance to sign a big contract.”
“These Project Snowball arrests involve offenders from all walks of life, who live in every corner of the city. They only have one thing in common, and that is the criminal approach to their relationship with children.”
“She was her husband's partner in life and shared his commitment; after his death, she ceaselessly promoted his advocacy of nonviolence and protected his legacy.”
“It is amazing how much crisper the general experience of life becomes when your body is given a chance to develop a little strength.”
“The life of the nation is shot through with a certain falseness and hypocrisy, which are all the more tragic because they are so often subconscious rather than deliberate ... The soul of the people is putrescent, and until that becomes regenerate and clean, no good work can be done.”
“There's some emergency shortcuts if there's a life in jeopardy. Our protection of our customer information is paramount.”
“I trust him with my life. If I had any money, I'd let him carry it for me - put it that way.”
“Lonnie Donahue is extremely enthusiastic, positive, extremely dedicated and a true professional. He has really breathed new life into the culinary arts program. He's a natural working with kids and students of all ranges.”
“I want my life and music to mean more to me and more to other people than just being a footnote in a growing rock 'n' roll text book. If I can contribute in any way, I don't even question it. It's a human response to a human problem. There's no real intellectual reasoning behind it at all.”
“I hope that's what we see Opening Day. What I saw I liked. He had good life on his fastball. His breaking ball was sharp. I think the time off might have helped him because his stuff was electric.”
“Parks, in addition to being quality of life components, in a place like Texas are huge economic generators.”
“When you're not having to deal with all those polling sites it
 simplifies one's life considerably,”
“The board felt a different set of skills was required at this point in the company's life.”
“Didn't have a whole lot of life to him.”
“It requires more strength to be gentle, so it's the everyday encounters of life that I think we've prepared children for and prepared them to be good to other people and to consider other people.”
“When you're not having to deal with all those polling sites it simplifies one's life considerably,”
“The Pacific Life Open is one of the world's most prestigious tennis tournaments with a significant profile in the U.S. sports landscape.”
“I think early in my life I may have been more explosive, internally, than I am now,”
“People will see systems that can be faster, smaller and quieter with longer battery life and lower electric bills.”
“We moved down here to get away from big-city life,”
“Well, normally there would be, but I know Andy so well, he's started his whole life and that's what he wants to do. His arm is healthy and we think he's ready to go.”
“He'd really turned his life around.”
“Blues music is a tool to help you deal with bad stuff in your life. If you've got a problem, I don't care what it is, if you put it to some music, you are going to feel better.”
“Anything I accomplish in basketball means something. It kind of puts a stamp on my life and what I've been doing.”
“That was amazing. That was the biggest game of my life.”
“We all face storms in life, whether it is a storm like Katrina, a storm in a marriage, or a storm in our finances.”
“Having just played in it, it was probably the biggest game of my life and it's going to take some time to sink in.”
“My biggest concern is that Sidney gets the proper help and gets healthy and gets his life in order. I touched base with him (Wednesday), he actually called and thanked me for everything, all the support. He said he'd keep in touch me and I wished him good luck and asked him to please keep in touch with me.”
“We'll know for sure if it's a torn ACL on Friday. That's life and you have to adjust to the changes that happen in life. Tonight the kids showed a lot of fight and fortitude. We made the adjustments and didn't die. It's the first time we're come back from the depths like that in the third game.”
“It's very, very exciting. It's just regular-life stuff.”
“Life began to really mean something to those kids.”
“Oh, what a day-to-day business life is.”
“Mr. Nelson gave me a very unique perspective on life. He urged me to ask questions, assume nothing and pursue interests with passion. That was 15 years ago, and Mr. Nelson's philosophy has impacted every day of my life.”
“Bush has cruised through life fueled by booze, drugs and bravado. He’s proud to be an underachiever and he rests comfortably on the laurels of his father. He’s failed at every venture he’s ever undertaken. And every mess he’s created has been cleaned up for him…arrests for drunk driving, cocaine, AWOL from the National Guard and numerous bad business deals. He is a self-made disaster. Yet, he was handed the keys to the kingdom…TWICE!
Fool me once, shame on you….
Fool me twice…….
God help us all.”
“One of our goals is to provide young girls with character-building life skills that can help them avoid risky adolescent behaviors, such as drug or alcohol use, early sexual activity and eating disorders.”
“A lot of it has to do with my dad. He was a mechanic my whole life. I grew up with cars. ... I have the utmost respect for American muscle cars.”
“We're professionals. You've got to get yourself ready for the game no matter what is going on in your life.”
“Every life has its actual blanks, which the ideal must fill up, or which else remain bare and profitless forever”
“I like sports and sports has been an important part of my life. I like to promote the young people on the broadcasts. I think that is so important.”
“The writer's life is full of frailty and defeat like any other life. What counts is the work. Yet the work can quite easily be buried, or half-buried, by the life.”
“He has lived a very unusual life. People who aren't in the know might think he's born to be an economist, that he was studying economics at the age of 5. But he's taken a lot of interesting eddies a long the way.”
“I have never had so much stomach pain in my life. But without the medication, I would never have reached the final in the first place.”
“They were pretty mobbed up, ... It was like the real-life 'Sopranos.'Ÿ”
“If getting out for 99 is the worst thing that happens to me in my life, I'll take it,”
“We've all been living life to the fullest during our break,”
“I think my life, for what I've been through, is so much tougher than the normal high school student, but I'm determined to do the right things and make the most of my opportunities. I've made mistakes in the past, but I'm trying to make up for those.”
“Our life is a book that writes itself and whose principal themes sometimes escape us. We are like characters in a novel who do not always understand what the author wants of them.”
“The question shouldn't be "is there life after death" but "is there life before death"...”
“He had so much life left in him. No man as good as Harold should have to die like that.”
“My mother and her friend climbed in the rumble seat. It was 1932. They could do that because life was different then.”
“He said, 'I'm going to get some help and get my life straightened out.' I told him it wasn't going to be easy, and good luck.”
“Sports is like life — you have good days and not-so-good days, ... We always think about the what-ifs. We are making some adjustments with the ad....Andy will still be visible.”
“My relationship with Tim has turned into one of the more important musical relationships in my life. He's as good as a guitar player gets.”
“It doesn't have a life of its own. You guys can write about it. But it's been weird.”
“I've never been more embarrassed in my life.”
“The best idea for extending life beyond two gyros is to get up there with the shuttle and service it. And that's what we're working on.”
“Despite your circumstances in life, you can truly achieve anything in life through hard work and faith.”
“The 100m has always been my main focus in life but I'm now wanting to run more 200m, particularly next year. I think I have a lot to prove in the event.”
“It's a passage of life. It's hard to let go,”
“The loss of life is something that has never happened on Metra.”
“They're not just working on a house. They are learning something that they need in life in almost everything they do.”
“He is going to start enjoying life.”
“The counselor said that because I lacked an everyday presence of my biological father in my life that I didn't bond with him and, therefore, developed a same-sex attraction.”
“We're friends for life, and this is just what we do.”
“I've never seen so much red in my life.”
“That's the best I've shot the ball all season. Maybe the best I've shot it in my life.”
“I've worked all my life to shed myself of any character.”
“In my many years of coaching, he is the most focused in terms of the important aspects of his life and his goals. He is a giver, not a getter, and a product of two amazing parents.”
“The purpose of money is to support your life, and if you want to use it to build great memories, go ahead. But you have to remember there is a balance between great memories and prudence.”
“Apple is overzealous in their advertisements. I've never seen another MP3 player commercial in my life.”
“At his age and this time of his life, he doesn't want the stress of being up and down all the time. It wears you out.”
“I've lived here my whole life, and there's always been a tournament here. I cannot imagine a Greensboro without a golf tournament here. It's such a part of our identity.”
“Cancer affects the whole life. These oncologists were concerned about patients who have to deal with money, work, social and family issues; and these are not issues doctors have time to deal with.”
“I've never seen anything like that before in my life. I don't know how to explain it. That was a guy, very talented, whose heart wanted whatever it took. You just don't see races like that.”
“We believe that affects every facet of their life.”
“I've been into video games pretty much my whole life, but as far as participating in tournaments, I just got into that last year. Last year I flew to Vegas for a $10,000 tournament.”
“I'm a city guy. I really like the fast-pace life, and there is no better place for that than L.A., unless they start having bowl games in New York.”
“I've never seen anything like that in my life. That was a guy very talented whose heart wanted that. And he was willing to give whatever it took. This whole team raced like that.”
“The message is that it is the water of life.”
“Regardless of any unpleasantness in my life, I still get up every morning and look for positive things to do, ... Who's In Charge.”
“That's four years of my life thinking I was the father of Ayainna ... and Amber made it very difficult during the whole time to have any kind of relationship or visitation,”
“It's made a chapter in my life complete. You know, there was a page missing and this page of getting this diploma is what made this chapter complete, so I can finish my book.”
“It was the toughest time in her life. At times she was sad, and at times she was happy.”
“I don't know if those bricks saved my life, but they kept it from being scarier.”
“We saw the German champions today. For 65 minutes or so we made life difficult for Bayern but their individual class shone through.”
“I just thought it would be a way to encourage the life skills in a real-life situation.”
“I'd like to think there's a huge interest out there because it's part of our daily life.”
“Life is neither good nor bad,”
“Body and soul, Black America reveals the extreme questions of contemporary life, questions of freedom and identity: How can I be who I am?”
“The real sin against life is to abuse and destroy beauty, even one's own -even more, one's own, for that has been put in our care and we are responsible for its well-being.”
“Secrets of the Flesh: A Life of Colette,”
“Crime victimization can dramatically change a person's life. Crime Victims' Rights Week gives Missouri an opportunity to educate our communities about the devastating impacts of violent crimes and also recognize the efforts of professionals and volunteers who dedicate their lives to helping victims of crime.”
“We've got to hold them responsible for the damage to life they can cause. There has to be continued pressure, and this will be part of that pressure.”
“If you're the breadwinner, you need life insurance, because you have a dependent. You shouldn't buy [insurance] a squeeze at a time, like toothpaste.”
“If you let your fear of consequence prevent you from following your deepest instinct, then your life will be safe, expedient and thin.”
“She found what she calls sisters for life.”
“These cool or antagonistic relationships are part of life in Washington and are accepted as such, but I often think how self-defeating they are and how much better polite professional relationships would serve political figures and journalists in situations like this. I agreed with a charming message I got from George McGovern after he had been defeated for the presidency. He recalled making some bitter remarks about a couple of our columnists at a dinner party; but wrote me, 'I have regretted that outburst and I have also established that the maximum time I can carry a grudge is about three months. This note is simply to say that I have now forgotten all campaign grudges. It is just too difficult trying to remember which people I'm supposed to shun.'”
“When one told Plistarchus that a notorious railer spoke well of him, "I'll lay my life," said he, "somebody hath told him I am dead, for he can speak well of no man living”
“What interests me, ... is why people are so repelled when, after all, everyone started life attached. In a sense, the twins have never been born because they are still tied by an umbilical cord. Relationships between women - daughters, mothers, friends - are one of my strong interests.”
“There are many innovations that have been proposed. There is a proposition that life tenure means that you have the position of judge for life, but not the position of chief justice for life.”
“These Civil War data represent a rare opportunity to look at medical records of war veterans over the life course, from a very young age until death. Not only are the data complete -- meaning all the veterans are deceased -- but the information is remarkably reliable because veterans' ailments were diagnosed by government physicians before being included in their official medical records.”
“We're comfortable. We're happy. We try to make our life interesting. When you're old, you have to do two things: You have to keep your mind active and you have to keep your body active. And I still get a thrill when I look at her.”
“Cancer patients are increasingly turning to alternative and complementary therapies to reduce symptoms, improve quality of life and boost their ability to cope with stress. We wanted to see if the creative process involved in making art is healing and life-enhancing. Our study provides beginning evidence for the important role art therapy can play in reducing symptoms. Art therapy provides a distraction that allows patients to focus on something positive instead of their health for a time, and it also gives patients something they can control.”
“Let me be clear, ... Palestinian political life will be based on ballots, not bullets.”
“It's a mood piece about love and relationship, like a slice- of –life- pie at 2 a.m. with episodes that happen quickly.”
“Irrespective of the results of the elections, I think the Palestinians have entered a new era and new political life.”
“He died sober. He died clean for the rest of his life. He ended his life the way we wanted him to be living his life and that torment is now out of his life. I just wish he had just one more chance.”
“Life safety takes priority. We have three schools near the area and traffic becomes very dangerous when school lets out, that's why we need to act now,”
“He's ready for this life.”
“I think he definitely is one of those people who lived his life through a higher calling. He knew there was something big he was supposed to be a part of and definitely worked his way to his goals.”
“What this job really does ? more than make you think about death ? it makes you think about life.”
“My guiding principles in life are to be honest, genuine, thoughtful and caring.”
“Life will not be the same for the ministers after the demonstration. It will not go back to normal.”
“The inferior never lives a fuller life than when he feels his existence is subsumed in a greater order endowed with a center; then he feels like a man standing before leaders of men, and experiences the pride of serving as a free man in his proper station.”
“If Sharon either quits political life or passes away, we call on the Israeli people to choose a new Israeli leadership, a new government that believes in peace and negotiations, but not in military operations.”
“When I came here, I couldn't speak a word of English, but my sex life was perfect. Now my English is perfect but my sex life is rubbish.”
“She was a very devoted mother. She gave her life to her two kids.”
“it's not worth risking a rescuer's life if the ground is unstable... we believe they're dead.”
“I am inspired by many mediums and use them to express varied aspects of my philosophies and life observations.”
“I am one of those people who just can't help getting a kick out of life -- event when it's a kick in the teeth.”
“Mr. Ross is breathing artificial life into the peace process.”
“It is the government's duty to educate and protect the American people. American Life League calls on the FDA to tell the truth and immediately remove this deadly drug from the market.”
“For everybody who does what I do, you hope you have life beyond network television, and DVD provides that. It's television's equivalent of immortality: You get to stay on retail shelves and in home libraries.”
“Do not fear; put your trust in him. The life-giving power of his light is an incentive for building a new world order based on just ethical and economic relationships.”
“Our quality of life of our citizens is impacted by the tourism economy that we have,”
“I've been around long enough to know that football only occupies a portion of what I do in life,”
“Americans should demand an end to taxpayer support for the likes of Planned Parenthood. That is why American Life League is stepping up its petition campaign to encourage lawmakers at the federal, state and local levels to cut off every penny of taxpayer assistance to Planned Parenthood, which operates the country's deadliest chain of abortion facilities. We simply cannot tolerate the idea of our tax money being used to subsidize these offensive activities.”
“We know well that this truth risks being contradicted by the hedonism of the so-called well-off societies: Life is exalted as long as it's pleasant, but one tends to not respect it any more when it is sick or damaged.”
“So-called emergency contraception is a risky drug regimen that can take the life of a newly formed human person. The decision in Massachusetts forcing pharmacies to sell this potentially lethal product is just one more example of the culture of death in our society. The additional misinformation presented in Tuesday night's episode of the 'Boston Legal' program only serves to compound the damage by misleading viewers, who are not provided with an accurate account of the drug's effects.”
“He is saying, 'War, war, war now, peace later.' I think he is making the mistake of his life,”
“I worry about President Arafat's life.”
“Movies are open doors, and at every door, I change character and life.”
“Most people don't get serious about planning until something big happens in their life, like marriage, divorce, having kids. When I see someone in their 20s who is already on the ball with their finances, the first thing I do is congratulate them.”
“the glamorous life!”
“I worry about President Arafat's life,”
“He (Sharon) is destroying our way of life.”
“We had a good life. We have good children. Nobody can take that away.”
“A call for free elections ... has a maximum online life of about half an hour.”
“Do make a note that it is mostly for fighting. I've been fighting all my life, and this is a fight I just took on.”
“I've never scored a touchdown in my life.”
“If kids work things out in reading versus working it out in real life, it's a much better deal,”
“(This new system) makes life more convenient for the students.”
“[Mrs. Wilkinson is a] disappointed woman on every level, ... She's jaded. And into her life comes this boy who, she knows instantly, has got something very special. So she clamps onto it and becomes completely obsessed.”
“Public art brings variety, energy and life to our public spaces. The One Percent for Art Program compliments this town's thriving art community and it serves as a testimonial to our elected officials' dedication to the city's cultural heritage and vision for the future.”
“It changes your life, I think, when you enter into a marriage and it can change it just as much as when you're part of a breakup,”
“About the only thing they share is the same life experiences. They have all done their own thing, and now they seem to be settling down.”
“It's one of the few jobs in which you sign a contract to risk your life on your job.”
“It's like faculty life here. They can move the kids when they're three or four years old.”
“I had spent a lot of my life in other cultures. I spent four years in Indonesia. I traveled through Japan. ... I have seen theater practiced in these ways before: mask theater, puppet theater.”
“She went from living this normal life to living a cancer life.”
“We want her adopted out by herself. She has been around puppies her entire life and now she needs a family where it is just her. Right now we are socializing her with other dogs, but she will make someone a really good little dog.”
“It was heartbreaking. We were picking up the pieces of someone's life.”
“The pro-life community is divided on what the best strategy is.”
“I love him and I'm going to miss him my whole life.”
“I've loved soccer all my life. I've seen many leagues in Houston, and now I get to come home and see it here. The energy and the fans screaming was just great.”
“This is uncharted territory ... It's overwhelming. It's like somebody took your life and just plucked you out of it.”
“It happens pretty frequently and in the most random places, ... It hasn't changed my life at all, but it's added a nice, fun element to it.”
“If he doesn't take a clear position on the pro-life side, it's going to hurt him, no question about it. People are just not going to work for him.”
“In death, as in life, our people deserve more respect than they have received,”
“I have taken action today to resolve a matter that involves life, death and dignity,”
“I think everybody should take a trip up that elevator once in their life.”
“White Rock Lake is a refuge from city life. If we lose that, we lose our natural beauty ... and I don't want to lose that.”
“Sometimes when adversity strikes in your life or in your sport, you have to rise to the occasion. I thought our kids did that tonight and I'm very proud of them for that.”
“For the past two years, this team has been my life. They're part of my family. It's hard to have to step aside.”
“Every inspection provides an opportunity to save a life. Last year in Texas alone, our technicians conducted more than 500 inspections and 21st donated more than 380 brand-new seats. We like watching those numbers rise, not the one that says more than 80 percent of seats are improperly installed.”
“Threatening me with death doesn't mean anything. I don't care less. The life of any one Iraqi is no less valuable than mine.”
“It's great to take what you learn in the classroom and apply it. When it clicks, they have real-life experience to draw from.”
“In the age that I am, in my entire adult life that I have been lobbying for reproductive freedom--why does it seem like we're going so far backwards?”
“They are more attuned to thinking about their life in phases rather than completely around work.”
“[Making these changes] is going to prevent people from getting into trouble later in life, having heart attacks and strokes, ... It's mind-boggling the public health benefit this could have if people can motivate themselves to make these changes.”
“Life is meaningless without the considerations of faith, love and inherited history in our nation,”
“There also has really been a big push toward leadership activities. They develop skills that prepare them for life.”
“The first three years of life are incredibly important. We know now that babies are really in desperate need of stimulation.”
“It was the most wonderful thing I've seen in my life. He was the most wonderful and courageous father,”
“A cynic should never marry an idealist. For the cynic, marriage represents the welcome end of romantic life, with all its agony and ecstasy. But for the idealist, it is only the beginning.”
“It was a special voyage. The Concorde was really an important part of my life.”
“If your dream is a big dream, and if you want your life to work on the high level that you say you do, there's no way around doing the work it takes to get you there.”
“Life and people are complex. A writer as an artist doesn't have the personality of a politician. We don't see the world that simply.”
“I wished a kid good health and speedy recovery and he told me 'my life is in your hands. Only your prayers and wishes will help me recover'. It's only when you get to hear such things that you are brought face to face with some harsh realities of life.”
“He was a very strict person in his life. What I will remember most of him was his exceptional drive and energy.”
“We started talking and I realized that he doesn't use evidence the way I do. He goes through life looking for things that fit his preconceived ideas of the truth.”
“Advances in science and medical research and public health policies have meant that life expectancy for Australians is one of the highest in the world.”
“We have a decreasing birthrate, although there are attempts to stem that trend, and we have an increasing life expectancy.”
“It's the most amazing thing I've ever done in my life, besides volunteering for the Red Cross during Hurricane Charlie.”
“We really value the life lessons they learn from living together. That's why we start with mediation.”
“It makes you feel good, like a different kind of high. I can say prayer has changed my life. For the first time in my life, I don't feel lost. Even when I had money, I was miserable because I didn't have Jesus.”
“Work life has taken over normal life, yet it's been stripped of humor, joy and pleasure.”
“That's something that lasts until the end of life.”
“My love life is nobody's business... if I give it to 40 million people to read, what do I have left when I go home? I'm protective of my personal life that way.”
“You are the God-being that is here to create life, to breathe soul into your body, to walk this world as your own source of power, love, worth and life.”
“I've been waiting to step up into this role my entire life, and it's here.”
“That cat definitely saved his life. It was persistent. He kept at him until he finally decided to get up.”
“Don't let anything stand in the way of you claiming and manifesting the life that you choose rather than the life you have by default.”
“Sometimes all it takes to change a life is to decide which beliefs do not serve you and to literally change your mind about those beliefs.”
“Fear is your greatest obstacle - so question your fear. If it does not serve your greatest life then do not make it your master.”
“Live thy life as it were spoil and pluck the joys that fly.”
“One thing that clearly gets people back into public life is personal contact. Old-fashioned knocking on doors is still one of the best ways to get people to vote. You need people who can explain...why these issues matter.”
“It's hard for us to believe that they will suddenly make the life of the developer community less difficult. We're skeptical at best, the history is not good. Maybe Bill Gates has suddenly turned into an angel.”
“The reason we've filed is because Connecticut General Life Insurance has continued to not live up to its obligation.”
“Oh my gosh, the town went crazy, ... I've never seen anything like that in my life. It was hard just getting in and out of downtown. There would be 40,000 fans outside the stadium waiting to get in hours before the game. You couldn't even drive in the city sometimes. It was crazy.”
“Life is short. If I didn't have the defibrillator, I would have been dead at the Christmas party three years ago. How lucky am I?”
“It adds a different dynamic to the life of the traveler. I think it enhances the quality of life as well.”
“My life is different than it ever was before.”
“Life marches by, I suggest you get on with it.”
“Delivering information to the consumer is a very, very powerful tool. It's giving them more control in their life.”
“I am realistic about it (skiing). I want to ski for the rest of my life.”
“It's very hard because I remember him as a kid, a student and an athlete. As a football player, life and death wasn't involved. ... It's one of those things you don't ever want to talk about - a former player dying.”
“Life to me is a fun experience.”
“I want her to rest. Being kept alive like that, it's not a life.”
“Some are slaves of ambition or money, but others are interested in understanding life itself. These give themselves the name of philosophers (lovers of wisdom), and they value the contemplation and discovery of nature beyond all other pursuits.”
“I understand the power of this kind of an institution to improve the quality of life for people. I've worked in nonprofit, humanities-oriented projects all of my life. For me personally, the opportunity to support people's ideas is critical.”
“Life is made up of sobs, sniffles, and smiles, with sniffles predominating.”
“This was the toughest game I've every played in my life. Playing against their big guy, he's just so physically strong. I mean, he's just a great player. I just played my heart out, stayed in front of him the whole game. He's strong, but I played my best.”
“Someone who was a part of my life. Probably the only one that really mattered.”
“I needed to find out who I was outside the music industry, and for the first time in my life I found true peace of mind.”
“Well, it's part of the widespread interest in examining life and making sense of it.”
“My mom always said part of life is humility.”
“It was tough, but I was really young when it happened, ... It's part of life. It's something that made me stronger and made me the person I am today.”
“You pray for miracles, ... Life is special. You should do everything possible to extend a person's life, but there is a time for each of us to die.”
“I am very disappointed (that we didn't take the lead) but such is life... in this game you are going to fall, but you have to know that you will have to rise again.”
“Our plumbers will snake the pipes. At the Student Life Center, there is a problem because the pipes are smaller than we would like them to be.”
“That was very important to us. We wanted to have this in there as a symbol of bringing life to [Mars].”
“I want justice for my daughter. I didn't lose my child and my child didn't lose her life. He killed my daughter.”
“We are enjoying life way too much. We plan to travel more, and it is just time to move on.”
“I do not ask for mercy for myself. The only reason I ask for you to give me a life sentence is for the sake of my family.”
“I do not ask for mercy for myself. The only thing I can see to give me a life sentence is for my family. I do not want to see them hurt any further.”
“B-29–worst plane ever made, just awful. The engine had a life of less than 250 hours. The air couldn't get to the back of it and the cylinders just blew up. We were always fixing them.”
“He didn't have a lot, but he loved life. He was my only son.”
“We are concerned if one life is lost. If people would just use their common sense, we will save lives every day.”
“We take the puppies everywhere we go, ... Our job is to acclimate them to everyday life. A lot of it is learning not to be distracted by normal, everyday things. It takes time for them to learn that.”
“The work of your life is to discover your purpose and get on with the business of living it out.”
“A life sentence was sufficient for them, it seems disproportionate to give our client the same sentence.”
“I believe that this is one of the most exciting state initiatives for the pro-life movement for the simple reason that it's [being considered in] California, which has almost a quarter of the nation's abortions [and] which is the leading abortion state. It will put a big dent in the number of abortions nationwide.”
“After college, I feel like we'll be NBA superstars and live the life we dreamed of.”
“She loved to sew, loved life.”
“You see those bodies in the water? Those are my people. That's me. That's my life. It just can't be real, ... Those are my people. That's my life.”
“She just enjoyed her son more than anything in life. She never had any regrets, ever.”
“My experience with debtors is that even if you get your life back on track, the experience of bankruptcy and the sense of failure stays with you.”
“This is your life. This is your income. This is your protection against catastrophic and unexpected events and expenses.”
“I think I value things more correctly. I hope I look at my life in a way that makes sense.”
“Emerging countries, such as Oman, can learn so much from the United States. To improve the quality of life of their citizens, these countries must embrace the core business principles that enable companies and individuals to be creative, resourceful and entrepreneurial.”
“I wouldn't mind going to school forever to get an education. I hope that by giving our life stories, we'll change a lot of people.”
“It's too dangerous. I don't want to risk anybody else's life.”
“We are able to change the life of other people in the community. It's a positive thing. We have done something.”
“We chose the ABB drives because this installation was a life-safety system and we wanted the Cadillac of drives. We use a lot of ABB drives in our projects and we count on their reliability. We did not consider using another company's drive.”
“I'm not going to look at this as being the most critical game of my life, but it's important like the other ones were. Coach knows who I am and what I bring. At the end of the day, if I'm someone that he wants around, then that's what he chooses.”
“A part of my life is over and completed. A part of which I am proud.”
“I'll just wait for a phone call from George and go on with my life until that happens,”
“I like to say that they're proof that there is life after boxing.”
“Life is very good. We've been blessed. It was a one in a billion chance of this happening to us and we were lucky that it did.”
“I am into a lot of things in school, but world history changed my life. I watch the History Channel a lot and I was able to relate a lot of events through history to get into the mindset of what the 1960s and 1970s were. That is critical.”
“We have been having mold problems with our bathroom ceiling. The ceiling was dripping. We asked {Residential Life} for a dehumidifier. They would only provide us with a commercial fan.”
“I see him as a man reborn. He stands for redemption and a second chance at life.”
“I think this really just gives us more life, even down the road, ... It deepens our catalog to the point where these songs, I think, are really going to grow on our fans and are just going to be fun to play live. And I think it just points us in the right direction.”
“They are providing significant impact to the quality of life to not just this community but really the state. They embody what we're trying to sell Iowa as: creative, cool, high-tech.”
“We had a two-hour snow delay (yesterday). I have never experienced anything like that in my whole life. I haven't seen snow in five years. I've never had snow fall on me while I was trying to play baseball.”
“What we want is to make something that fills utterly the sight and can't be used to make life only bearable.”
“I don't think their personalities are necessarily these big, extraordinary, larger-than-life characters. They're really just normal guys.”
“We get to know people, and get our life together, we're not here to preach at you.”
“I've got to be in the best shape of my life. This is a contract year for me, probably the most important year of my career.”
“Kirsten is a really positive person. In the film, she brings my character back to life. She's perfectly cast because she is that light.”
“Most people don't realize that every day women's lives are being saved and their quality of life improved because health plans have developed programs that safeguard women's health.”
“You do the best you can because you know a life depends on it. It was like being in a war zone -- you did what you had to do.”
“Maintaining a predictable routine is critical to helping your pet adjust to changes in life. Most issues that come up between babies and pets can be prevented with a little advanced planning.”
“The resultant tales from life are stirring reader interest, survivor passions and unease among Britons.”
“All of the injuries are non-life-threatening, which is amazing, given the damage to the vehicles.”
“Now you mix personal and business life. It is not 9-to-5 on the road it is 24-7. It is about designing for 24-7 and for (merging) home and business needs.”
“We look for a cross-section of different personalities. We try to pick people from all walks of life. We also look for people who you wouldn't expect to be doing this sort of thing.”
“This season has been one of the most fun and exhilarating things I have ever done in my life. After every performance you feel like you've accomplished something.”
“We are astonished and devastated to learn of the hidden life of Neil Entwistle. We never suspected that Neil was anything other than a loving father, a trusted son-in-law and a husband.”
“The function of the novelist... is to comment upon life as he sees it.”
“We can not tell what may happen to you in the strange medley of life. But we can decide what happens to us, how we take it, what we do with it, and that is what really counts in the end.”
“My goal is to make sure that he stays locked up for the rest of his miserable life -- here or in Mexico,”
“The function of the novelist . . . is to comment upon life as he sees it.”
“This is about allowing people to traverse a vast linear park system. The quality of life is going to improve in Boston and for all of us.”
“the last and greatest performance of my life.”
“If there is no food, there is no water, there is no basic life-providing resources, as an officer you want to just look the other way,”
“That is oftentimes the case with actors because the nomadic element of their life means, in a sense, that they are recreating themselves. I would sort of — in somewhat of an ugly, schizophrenic style — lie in bed the night before I would start a new school and say, 'What do I like from some guy that I was around that I want to be more like?' There are elements of that in acting. I didn't realize that I was preparing for that.”
“In real life, it takes only one to make a quarrel.”
“Middle-aged life is merry, and I love to lead it.”
“To me, my life is not courage. I was born with this. It's just everyday life for me.”
“Stuyvesant chats with Kelly and Katz, The professor warms to the broker, And life is good in the brotherhood Of an air-conditioned smoker”
“It starts with graduations, and weddings, and then you just hang on for dear life until September-October.”
“He's suffered quite a bit in his life as well. I do feel sorry for him.”
“I still live my life like a normal 16-year-old. I just have to go to the doctor a lot more.”
“Would we accept this situation in real life? The answer is no,”
“I've never experienced anything like this in my life.”
“It's a thoughtful, decent, honorable decision. He's come down on the side of facilitating life.”
“There's something about whatever despair and whatever negativity there is in your life, once you expel it, well, it's like praying, saying whatever's troubling you through your mouth, and hearing it through your ears, participating in your own despair makes it better. So we're not making it for you like a birthday cake, we're making it for ourselves.”
“You don't want your little girl to wear a diaper all her life.”
“I've never shot so poorly in my life. It's embarrassing.”
“Late in his life, he made this bad judgment. I hate this happened to a man who had such an interesting life. He has built such a wonderful company, using good judgment. I hope a federal judge will be kind to him.”
“The taking of a human life is the ultimate crime. Irreversible. It does not matter to the victim of a murder whether the person holding a gun is 16 or 60.”
“My client was in fear of his life, my client was in fear for his safety. My client had some great concerns. More importantly he felt a great deal of concern that his passenger was going to be harmed, so he fled the area.”
“It's been the greatest 11 years of my life. It's a shame that it's over, but I'm trying to focus on how great it was and how much it meant to me instead of being selfish and being miserable that I can't play anymore.”
“He that hath promised pardon on our repentance hat not promised life till we repent.”
“He's our leader and obviously, you want your leader around. But he's a leader in other capacities of his life and that's why he is where he is today. We do everything as a staff and we're all on the same page.”
“I have had a full and joyful and I hope productive life, and I intend to have other chapters that will meet those same standards,”
“I'm eternally grateful to the penal system in California for saving my life.”
“Why need every honest poet be suspected of leading a quadruple life? Sometimes the second or third meaning is less interesting than the first, and the only really difficult thing about a poem is the critic's explanation of it”
“When all is said and done, it's just a game and it's not bigger than life. Try not to worry about it too much. After all, a match is just six minutes of your life.”
“We want to help you find that balance between style and life, creating a look you've always wanted at a price you can afford.”
“I'm proud to say that I try very hard to be as much a part of his life as possible, but it was a 70- or 80-hour work week, six or seven days a week?he was born two years into the show?and now I want to spend six months with him. I told my agent not to call me. I've turned the answering machine off. I have six months to kind of catch up with my family and see where my creative juices lay and see what opportunities are out there for me.”
“It's the best day of my life. It's like a dream.”
“a group of feminists, some with life partners, some not . . . who gather to address mother's rights and other issues important to us.”
“The thing that brought this back to life was the partnership aspect.”
“It has truly brought New York to a new level of life. I don't want to say resurrected because resurrected means you were dead first and then you rose from the ashes. But work was diminishing, and the tax credit program has changed that around dramatically for the entire industry.”
“To a woman the house is life militant; to a man it is life in repose”
“Juan has been a great guy to coach. He has his life going in the right direction and I'm so proud of him.”
“Life on the road, it's not fun in the Pac-10. We're out of sync right now and Stanford is playing well.”
“It seems like he's more excited about his tennis. It's like a new lease on life. He's been gaining confidence.”
“I think I care more about the quality of life issues, and that appeals to people that moved here to enjoy the beauty and the animals and all of that. I feel there are some people who are intent on pushing business, and I heard very little else from them.”
“When I select a topic, it's usually a commitment of two to three years of my life.”
“It should be a lot of fun. It's kind of an honor. My dad's helped me out throughout my life. I'm kind of playing the game for him, too, because he's been a big part of it. It's kind of a gift to him.”
“[As is the way with almost everything concerning] In My Life, ... jaw-dropping whimsy run amok.”
“The subject of this book, Paul Farmer, came along at a time in my life when I was feeling more and more cynical about such global problems as AIDS.”
“I'm not ashamed of who I am. Of course I'm ashamed of the things that have happened. But with life experiences, you're able to give back and help others.”
“Life at the greatest and best is but a forward child, that must be humored and coaxed a little till it falls asleep, and then all the care is over.”
“In My Life”
“Life turns on a dime”
“[The fall's biggest mystery will be] In My Life, ... You Light Up My Life.”
“For boredom speaks the language of time, and it is to teach you the most valuable lesson of your life -- the lesson of your utter insignificance.”
“He's just a big, jolly ... Glen. He's the life of the team.”
“We hope that you will truly lock him up for the rest of his life and throw away the key.”
“They waddle and had bad relationships with their fathers, ... Without a masculine figure in his life, [Silo] took up homosexuality.”
“Other than that, I've taken grief my whole life over the way I played and this and that. I let the criticism roll of my back and use it to get better.”
“He didn't want to go to prison for 10 years, so life is enough.”
“It took on a life of its own, like a viral infection,”
“My whole life would have been different,”
“Students that come out of this experience are significantly more prepared for a job, and life in general. I am no longer afraid of what lies ahead after school.”
“The Queen's Sister is a dramatic gift - a witty and irreverent royal romp. Princess Margaret's life was so vibrant and conflicted that this was a story dying to be told,”
“My heart goes out to him because of what has happened to his life, ... It's a traumatic experience.”
“And so, they wait. Mothers, wives and daughters wait to place flowers at those graves -- and to start life over again.”
“Death gives life its fullest reality.”
“It really adds another dimension to the museum by providing some life and perhaps drawing a different crowd.”
“I have begun to think that the seventies are the very worst years since the history of life began on earth...”
“If I've met three geniuses in my life, Marlon [Brando] would have to be top of the list.”
“Appreciation of life itself, becoming suddenly aware of the miracle of being alive, on this planet, can turn what we call ordinary life into a miracle.”
“He has owned me all of my life. I've only hit two home runs off him, one in college and this one. We have played a lot of games against each other since we were 13 years old.”
“A lot of local people. Doctors, lawyers, Indian chiefs. Everyone from all walks of life who seemingly have an interest. ... Usually, in any boxing event, the highest tickets go first and the lowest tickets go, then everywhere in between. This event, everything went and kept going.”
“For the duration of its collective life, or the time during which its identity may be assumed, each class resembles a hotel or an omnibus, always full, but always of different people.”
“The evolution of the capitalist style of life could be easily — and perhaps most tellingly — described in terms of the genesis of the modern Lounge Suit.”
“We've discovered the secret of life.”
“To the believer [Marxism] presents, first, a system of ultimate ends that embody the meaning of life and are absolute standards by which to judge events and actions . . .”
“He's pitched a lot of innings in his life and as with any pitcher it's not a perfect shoulder, but it's one we felt was a worthwhile risk. We've got to be smart in the way we use him but when he's right we believe he's one of the best pitchers in baseball.”
“The fight didn't end there. I've never boxed in my life, never been in a military base in my life, never grew up with anyone in the military. I had to go train and do a bunch of things I had no clue about: physical training in the gym and boxing training and learning the choreography. I can say, hands down, 'Annapolis' is the most challenging film I've ever taken on.”
“The only hit I've gotten off him my whole life was a bomb in college and a bomb today.”
“Matt is an amazing holder. He is one of the best holders I have ever seen in my life.”
“The way I see it, God gave us life for some reason and took away life from others for some other reason. It's a mystery. Only God knows why.”
“LIFE IS AN OYSTER AND YOU ARE ITS PEARL.”
“I've never seen anything like it in a girls fast-pitch softball game in my life. Seeing back-to-back in a girls game was amazing. And we had a good first, too. It was wild.”
“He owned me my whole life.”
“She's got her reasons for not wanting him in her life ... and we believe those reasons should be respected.”
“The deep, personal material of the latter half of your life is your children. You can write about your parents when they're gone, but your children are still going to be here, and you're going to want them to come and visit you in the nursing home.”
“We believe that [Jones] should have a solid economic position to live comfortably for the rest of his life, and he shouldn't let -- for any reason -- his pride as a great champion push him to risk his health or his life,”
“We believe that (Jones) should have a solid economic position to live comfortably for the rest of his life, and he shouldn't let - for any reason - his pride as a great champion push him to risk his health or his life,”
“to use her success to help other women on their journey in life.”
“It's impossible to say whether a life jacket would have made a difference for Mr. Seidel, but certainly it would have helped. Had this individual had a life jacket on, he certainly would have improved his odds.”
“We believe that (Jones) should have a solid economic position to live comfortably for the rest of his life, and he shouldn't let — for any reason — his pride as a great champion push him to risk his health or his life,”
“I can't support a company that does not value life.”
“We believe that [Jones] should have a solid economic position to live comfortably for the rest of his life, and he shouldn't let -- for any reason -- his pride as a great champion push him to risk his health or his life.”
“What we want is to be able to give our families a decent life. I think it's only fair.”
“It's the best job I ever had in my life. Enjoyed it, ... I'm gonna miss our customers. They've been great.”
“I'm 45 years old, and it's been going on most of my life.”
“I have a job and I go to school and gas does have a huge impact on my life. I have to work for gas.”
“We're marching to support the people who come here to work for a better life. This is what we're all fighting for.”
“I personally enjoy it because I've spent my life in the library. I was the director at the library at Marshall University for 10 years, and I've always enjoyed reading.”
“It's not life-threatening. God's got our back.”
“Some people are content to stay here the rest of their lives. I'm not. I need more out of life.”
“People generally see what kind of life you have growing up. Even if you do get a college degree, you get in at the plant because you know at least you can provide a good life for your family.”
“Let them take care of the roads and ditches and stay the hell out of my personal life.”
“James gave his life for the city, for this country.”
“It's good that it rains. Rain brings life.”
“They can hold on a couple more days. In this life nothing comes easy.”
“Wasting is part of her life. She wasted her life, wasted my son's life and would keep on wasting lives if she gets the opportunity.”
“For me, the more life we have downtown, the better for everyone.”
“The life lessons that these students will obtain from this experience will be incredible.”
“It's women writing about all kinds of things. They write their memoirs and life stories; some women write poetry. Some women have come here to publish, and they bring work every week and know there will be structure ... essays, poems, stories, histories, finance books. They're all across the map. I wouldn't label the writing anything except that it's women's words. And men's words too, now.”
“I'm going to play with him all my life. I'm never going to leave him behind.”
“That's what I've been my whole life - the go-to guy. I like being in that role.”
“Democracy, like life, is hard to learn and doesn't have a teacher,”
“We want to get rid of this bill. People come here for a better life, and we think this isn't fair.”
“This is our life after retirement. It's nice to be kept clean and neat, free of whatever. So we're more safe here.”
“Everything that happened, broke our family. What he did, he has to pay for it. He took the life of somebody. A person like this shouldn't be out on the street.”
“I did what I did because of drugs. They controlled my life.”
“I have yet to hear a sound, anything that resembles life. I fear for the worst, but I'm hanging on to hope until the very end.”
“There are no shortcuts in life -- only those we imagine.”
“Putting them in their context gives an idea of life and death from the first to the sixth centuries.”
“Abandoned buildings are not a benefit to anyone. I think the Strip can comeback to life without necessarily being what it was before.”
“The true color of life is the color of the body, the color of the covered red, the implicit and not explicit red of the living heart and the pulses. It is the modest color of the unpublished blood.”
“If I could live my life all over I'd do everything the same; the film in my camera would remain the same; there's no way lord, to leave this love behind.”
“I have always said that life is more important than politics.”
“She believed in you. You took advantage of her situation by taking her money, her car and her life.”
“Because this type of reaction is found only in biological systems, it could serve as a marker for extraterrestrial life.”
“But we know that young adults choose different paths in life and it won't be mandatory that they go to college. We know that there are many excellent programs in the community colleges and technical schools and certainly the military is an option for some kids.”
“That was the worst 15 kilometers ever in my life.”
“That was the worst 15 km ever in my life.”
“It's definitely the hardest decision of my life. But I had to face facts. I can't handle 10 games in two weeks, or whatever it would be.”
“It was definitely the hardest decision of my life. I'm very disappointed.”
“That's my life story. If it wasn't hard, it wouldn't be my life.”
“I have been teaching guitar all of my playing life. I really needed to do this. Where the ranch is now there were only prickly bushes and poison ivy. It has exceeded our wildest expectations for me and my blues-picking buddies.”
“I have reached a time in my life when the needs of my two-year-old son are paramount.”
“We're generally supportive of efforts to make life easier on legitimate marketers. But I don't know if it's a good precedent to set for Internet service providers to charge per message for guaranteed delivery. That doesn't seem like the best way to handle spam.”
“I will carry on with a normal life with the recommendation that one day I have to stop smoking, which was something I already knew.”
“I don't want three million people digesting my private life over their cornflakes.”
“I try and encourage them about a different road to take in life,”
“Best friends are best friends, but possessing drugs will ruin life and is against the law,”
“Life has to go on and people have to use the transport system. People always expect the Americans in particular to shy away after there have been incidents but we have not heard of any mass cancellations.”
“I've had a good life,”
“The shelf life of the modern hardback writer is somewhere between the milk and the yogurt.”
“The entire private life insurance industry in Japan, including its foreign participants, will carefully monitor this crucial process, which must also be open to input and genuine exchange.”
“We were given a lemon and we made lemonade. [These businesses] are part and parcel of the gay life in this whole metropolitan area.”
“We are hear to celebrate, and I mean celebrate, the unique and wonderful life of Rosamond McPherson Young.”
“If I can live life the way I want to, why can't you do it.”
“No load out here is worth your life or anybody else's.”
“[Testosterone] is very much a quality-of-life drug, much like Viagra, ... It makes you feel good.”
“Researchers are finding more evidence that diet early in life could play a role in the development of diseases in women later in life,”
“This study provides additional evidence that breast cancer may originate during the early phases of a woman's life and that eating habits during that phase may be particularly important to reduce future risk of breast cancer.”
“Not everything in my life has been pretty,”
“A great interpreter of life ought not himself to need interpretation.”
“My whole mission in life is to help us find the power we lack to create the world we want,”
“The ambulance was clearly marked with a big red cross. No regard for human life.”
“I've never built anything in my life. I'm amazed that I can use a hammer. But it really didn't take a long time to adjust and figure out what we're doing.”
“We wanted it to have a flair of yesterday and today ... so people can be exposed to some rural life. That's why we call it a country fair.”
“I lived a terrible life, filled with alcohol, drugs You name it, I was involved in it. I did a lot of ungodly things. You might say I started following the devil instead of the Lord.”
“If the church could catch a vision for using video technology to present an authentic presentation of the life of the church - not rehearsed videos, but spontaneous records of conversations, laughing with one another, weeping with one another, people sharing their lives, etc. - the average person might take notice,”
“I'm a character actress, plain and simple... Who can worry about a career? Have a life. Movie stars have careers - actors work, and then they don't work, and then they work again.”
“I do believe when you are baptized you are able to start a new life; you are refreshed. I think Easter will have a deeper meaning to me now. . . . I think this time I will truly understand the meaning of it.”
“The life of the law has not been logic; it has been experience.”
“Life and language are alike sacred. Homicide and verbicide -that is, violent treatment of a word with fatal results to its legitimate meaning, which is its life -are alike forbidden.”
“We respond better to the stresses and challenges of daily life. We're more creative, use our abilities to the fullest and make the most of opportunities when our mental health is strong.”
“My mom always said she wanted to get through life without ever learning how to use a computer. But pretty soon, she was looking over my shoulder, and by the time we made the purchase, she was really into it. She was like a fish in water.”
“If we keep focused, God will apply the Atonement to make up the difference so we can obtain eternal life.”
“I've been very happy serving in a smaller school. It's a way of life for me. The interests of mine and the community have been the same. Rural schools have been my life. Montana is one of the most rural states. There's a need to educate every kid in the state.”
“It was a way of life, it was what you did.”
“Life is action and passion; therefore, it is required of a man that he should share the passion and action of the time, at peril of being judged not to have lived.”
“We are taking care of people, that's our business. We are the basic life support they get until an ambulance arrives. It is usually 15-20 minutes to get here an ambulance from either Athens or Frankston. We provide the medical assistance.”
“Time of Your Life.”
“Anyone can influence others' lives, anyone can be a leader. Hopefully, they are the emerging life of leadership.”
“I thought the song would be a hit, but this is something else. It has taken on a life of its own. I?m just standing on the side letting it be.”
“We did this as a fundraiser for Relay for Life and March of Dimes last year. We sold all we had, and we have one more order in now.”
“We're very pleased to have the opportunity to breathe new life into Haystack and this Vermont resort community and to have David bring together a dynamic team to make Haystack Club a reality. It's an exciting time for the community and for Vermont and we look forward to having someone of David's experience help us forge ahead.”
“I simply have a marvellous life, a very lucky life.”
“He always has said that he wanted to be a citizen. He's really made his career and a second life here.”
“In a life threatening situation like a heart attack or a trauma, 25 minutes is a long time. It could cause someone their life.”
“My whole life has been dedicated to music. And of course, I've been accused a million times of playing too fast or too many notes, and I'm sure justifiably sometimes. But, you know, I'm the way I am and as we grow old, we learn and I'm still learning about space. But I'll be learning about space until I die.”
“I could not hear what (Rivers) was saying to save my life, and he was yelling as loud as he could.”
“It is as in real life. If you are successful then you have to live with it.”
“I'm keen to get back to life but not to lose memories like that.”
“He says that I would have passed in my sleep. I'm not sleeping anymore the rest of my life.”
“I think the abortion ban will affect the conversation. If people are truly as passionate about the value of life before it's born, certainly we should care about life after birth. Hopefully, people would be more consistently pro-life.”
“I'm looking for quality of life, non-recurring expenses for these funds.”
“The artist has one function-to affirm and glorify life.”
“It (the restaurant) was my saving grace. This became my life; all aspects of it. It is my baby .... Your whole life pretty much revolves around this place because you are here almost 24/7.”
“At that point of a child's life the development of a child's early language skills is crucial. While it might have some entertainment value, it is very passive.”
“Yet there comes a time in the life of a patriot when abdication would amount to a betrayal if not outright treachery.”
“Magnificently unprepared For the long littleness of life”
“It was a real life experience.”
“Broadway was without doubt the hardest I ever worked in my life and the highest highs I've ever had as an actor. The unadulterated fear was on a level that was hard to explain.”
“The main action of all such minds must evidently be as independent of the will as is the life in a plant or a tree; and, as they are but different results of the same great vital energy in nature, we cannot but feel that the works of genius are as much a growth as are the productions of the material world.”
“The stream of life, - which, in other men, obstructed and at last stationary as the objects that surround it, seems scarcely to deserve the name,- in them rolls ever onward its rich and life-giving waters as if unconscious of the beautiful banks it has overflowed with fertility.”
“one of the most intense individuals I've ever met in my life.”
“It's one of those things. Another challenge in my life that I have to overcome. I think I will.”
“I don't know if it's a Canadian thing. We have a comfortable life and this (the worlds) is an uncomfortable environment and it wears you down. But if you start thinking about bronze, you aren't keeping your eye on the prize.”
“He knows the music. He knows the songs. He knows the people. He knows the life. But especially, he knows the stories ? and the artists and fans just seem to take him places they wouldn't most other people.”
“It was a life-changing decision if you like,”
“We are deeply saddened by this incident and the related loss of life.”
“I think the biotech and life sciences industry in the New Haven area is what's driving venture capital investment in Connecticut.”
“When you exceed your life expectancy, you're looking at a high repair costs.”
“The damage that the Domenici bill would do every aspect of life in America would be incalculable. In very short order, America would become a vastly overpopulated nation devoid of a middle class. The United States Senate owes it to the American public to reject this and similar amnesty and guest worker bills and focus on protecting our borders and the survival of the American middle class.”
“I've never felt so sorry for a group of kids in my life. We outplayed them in every facet of the game and then this happens. I honestly feel like the better team didn't win tonight, and the kids are taking it pretty hard.”
“I made a mistake in my personal life, I have apologized, and I once again take this opportunity to ask forgiveness from the people and from my family.”
“To suddenly appear in the Cambrian must remain inexplicable. Clearly, Darwin's theory of life does not fit the fossil evidence for the origin of the major groups of animals.”
“To suddenly appear in the Cambrian must remain inexplicable, ... Clearly, Darwin's theory of life does not fit the fossil evidence for the origin of the major groups of animals.”
“It was a tough decision, the toughest in my life. I said no because I feared I would not adjust well.”
“It was a long climb, but when Ann sprained her ankle that took the life out of us.”
“That building is nearing the end of its life. That building cannot be salvaged.”
“They're steppingstones, markers to whatever's going on in your life, at that moment, ... There's no pain in any of them. They're memories and recollections of time we spent together as musicians, and the stories that were going on at the time. They're diaries, really. They all have pleasant memories.”
“Nothing would be enough...probably best to be in prison for life.”
“Basketball is her life. Her getting to see me play is my motivation. I don't know what she'd do without me playing basketball.”
“Wang Dan is very excited and eager to start his new life in exile. Wang Dan is a modest, methodical and determined person. He wants to continue to contribute to China's democracy.”
“We are alive again. We were on life support.”
“Life is like Parachuting, as we fall through the air, we pray to god the chute opens.”
“My life is more precious than my name.”
“You think about your own life, you think about the possibility of everything being taken away from you.”
“I fell to my knees screaming. I never in my life thought that I would hear those words come out of his mouth.”
“How can we start to look at life through the prism of poker?”
“Japan faces problems of decreasing population, an aging society and increasing national debts. Mr. Koizumi sounds as if life will be all rosy if the postal service is privatized, but no one takes what he says seriously.”
“Dinner has been the biggest stress in our family life.”
“If you look at most of life today, they've all been adapted to a world getting gradually cooler. But our future is destined to be significantly warmer. What are animals going to look like when everything must adapt to a warmer world? Size correlates with many aspects of the biology of an animal so changes in size are likely to translate into substantial ecological changes. A better prediction of the biological effects of future global change requires that, among other things, we understand how climate change shapes body size evolution.”
“BC has maintained its commitment to making life less painful for hardworking Americans. During Black History Month, BC is honored to recognize American heroes such as Carver, Morgan and Walker who are a not only a direct reflection of that commitment, but also helped to build our country into what it is today.”
“[From all accounts, Jenks already had turned around his life. A wife and two children can do that.] I think this kid is pretty strong mentally, ... And it's my job, as long as he plays for me, to keep him on the right track, and I will.”
“Primarily we hope to increase their enjoyment of art and music. Music is essential to quality of life and we hope to make these students lifelong consumers of music.”
“That's the first time in my life my heart was pounding like crazy. Because I was nervous, because I was so excited, I said, 'When is this moment going to happen? A lot of people are waiting for this moment.' And wow, it came true.”
“In this life he laughs longest who laughs last.”
“My whole life has been traveling, so it just seems normal to me, ... I'm able to leave on a bus with eight or nine guys, and I feel really comfortable with it. I've always done it. It's heaps of fun. They're all people I get along with really well. They're all my family, my best friends.”
“I feel kind of sorry for that young man as he received a black record in life for his behavior. It is common for soccer fans to light fireworks in celebration. Maybe he didn't expect police would take it so seriously this time.”
“I'm never going to forget this Opening Day. I've been in a lot of Opening Days in my life. But this was the most special. I've never been in an Opening Day like this one.”
“You can win a national championship, but you'll remember for the rest of your life that you didn't get one of these.”
“This is our life. These babies are our life. I want the people who read this to feel our joy. I want people to be informed about our babies because like I said, they are a miracle and this doesn't happen very often.”
“I hope he has the game of his life.”
“Coming to the Hope straight out of college is the best move for me right now in my life as I am simply working with one of my passions.”
“It's the best time of my life here. This is way different than high school. There is much better competition. Everybody playing is pretty good and you don't see many errors.”
“It makes you appreciate life a lot more, ... Some people have nothing now. They lost everything.”
“I just felt, at this time of my life, this is where I wanted to be.”
“She is gonna be happy for the rest of her life.”
“The goal of the day is to let people know it's tangible and possible to live a sustainable life.”
“This is making an already dangerous job even more dangerous. This is a different life and safety hazard that we are working with the city to get resolved.”
“I don't want to stay. Life isn't easy. Everything is money and I don't have any. Some days, I don't eat.”
“I don't believe you're going to go until God takes you. I've lived a good, full life and I'm not worried about it. You've got to take life as it comes.”
“It's a new chapter in our lives. I'm happy. It kind of makes my life and Bart's life and our family's lives complete.”
“It's a new chapter in our lives. I'm happy. It kind of makes my life and Bart's life and our families' lives complete.”
“Nagasaki is not just a few hazy images. I remember it as a real chunk of my life.”
“There was another life that I might have had, but I am having this one.”
“That's about the only way to really paint is from life. Everything I do is from a live model or subject.”
“What is difficult is the promotion, balancing the public side of a writer's life with the writing. I think that's something a lot of writers are having to face. Writers have become much more public now.”
“It's remarkable how aware he is of things that go on around him. He hasn't made mistakes in his life because he is aware of his surroundings and how things could be portrayed. As a player, he never put himself in a bad position to get hit. He's done that in retirement, too.”
“I'm married now, so I have a life. I had to get a life. That's one thing I really had to do, you know. You do that kind of work on television series after television series and you don't have a life. So, that's part of what I did while I was gone, I got a life.”
“That's the first time I've ever done it in my life without a pit. I just started it a week ago. The judge wrote 'thanks for trying' on my score sheet. It was so funny.”
“Doug lived life large -- he had an intensity while he was at work. It was something he always wanted to do from when he was a little boy.”
“When I first discovered Second Life , I was immediately impressed by the sophistication of this virtual world, especially the existence of a fully functioning, thriving economy. I look forward to being a part of its future growth.”
“The problem with Daytona Beach is it took me forever to get my kids thinking that their life isn't over if FSU, UF and Miami weren't after them. I think the coaches have stepped it up around here and realized that this is part of our job.”
“You really find out what's important in life. The things that I was worried about when I was living in New Orleans and everything was OK are really trivial compared to what really matters.”
“It's hard to imagine what life is like when the person you knew as your partner takes on such legendary, mythic dimensions in society. To continue to function to be a beacon, it's a reminder that she was not simply an observer but an active participant who helped shape the movement.”
“I never understood how fulfilling life could be until I found God. There's no longer a big empty hole inside of me. I feel like I have a purpose in life? a mission.”
“I know we're all still suffering the loss of this great man, ... But we can still celebrate his wonderful life.”
“If I had to live my life over again, I'd try to make more mistakes next time.”
“We'd see people live more simply, and to them it's a way of life.”
“I'm a firm believer that everything in life works out the way it's supposed to. And who knows? I figure I've got a few years left (in the NHL) and maybe I can come back in the end.”
“Sports were a big part of my life, and it truly shaped me and the values and morals I have from that, ... It's a good tribute to what I took away from high school sports.”
“I'd hit it again, if I had the chance. I'll hit it the rest of my life. I'm not playing for second.”
“playing a role in Michael Jackson's life every day.”
“It's a legislator reaction to a real life problem that we face every day.”
“I work with young kids, trying to help them to be a good person in life. I want these kids to see me as a good role model.”
“For many people, especially in the urban areas, life has become unaffordable and unbearable and these people are waiting to vent their anger through mass demonstrations.”
“As a parent, I think it's important for kids to have a source of entertainment that deals with life in positive and comedic ways.”
“It is the one event in my life of which I am most ashamed and I have long feared it would be made public.”
“Our life is half natural and half technological. Half-and-half is good. You cannot deny that high-tech is progress. We need it for jobs. Yet if you make only high-tech, you make war. So we must have a strong human element to keep modesty and natural life.”
“That's what goes on — it's life. That's the way the game is. You can look at other teams as well having injuries. Bad luck or something. You can't put a finger on it. If it's going to happen, let it happen now.”
“I learned so much of life facing the possibility of it terminating for me. I no longer save moments, ... There may be no tomorrow. When I am at a party, I have fun right then and there. I don't reflect on the fun I might have had the next morning. Like many artists, I still have a self-destructive side. I think it goes with the territory. Getting things out by writing does help. However, if that side did not exist, I doubt I would have visited the sites of landmines. I would have been thinking more of my survival. Those trips were very dangerous.”
“I really feel that sports at this level prepares the kids for the trials they're going to face in life. These guys had some success and a lot of adversity and they took it. It was a good season.”
“It's not like it's the first mistake I've made in my life. I've never professed to being perfect.”
“We believe in heaven, yet desperately cling to this life. We look to the other side and the transition with fear, foreboding, and dread. As if there was nothing better.”
“That's not the Amish way of life. There's three words that I don't like: court, suing, judge. It's not scriptural to sue someone.”
“Our country is the richer for her life and the poorer at her death.”
“But it was just like life was waiting for me to make that decision, and when I finally made it, it just took me places I never even believed existed.”
“These are habitats that are similar to the types of places that we think life could have originated in and possibility still survive in.”
“Property stocks sprang to life after falling about 10 percent on average over the past six months as rising interest rates dampened property market sentiment.”
“I was going to be living there and I didn't want to sound like a foreigner all my life.”
“I think it will be the most important film of his life.”
“But the contract probably set up him for life. Other guys see that.”
“I'm hoping that in this incident with the wrestling team that nobody lost their life or was seriously injured. If you don't have a wrestling program for a few years, that's a small price to pay in my opinion.”
“Life is precious and there's not a lot of room for anger.”
“But as gay parents our private life is so politicized. It's an object lesson.”
“That was just thugs sitting there, not elected officials, ... somebody who affected everybody's life, not just the lives of other criminals.”
“A man can have protected sex with a different partner every day for the rest of his life and never contract HIV, while another man could have unprotected sex once in his life and become infected the same day.”
“My older brother John lived in Technicolor; he taught me to wear bright colors and to love life.”
“Eduardo had the game of his life.”
“To have a fatality in motorsport is always terribly sad, but for a 14-year old to lose his life is quite devastating and my thoughts are mainly of course with Chris's family, but also his team and the many friends he had in the motor cycle racing world,”
“And one could argue that a high quality of patient care also translates into a higher quality of life, making it easier to recruit and attract workers and businesses.”
“I couldn't believe that it fell right in there. I couldn't have been more devastated in my life.”
“Those are some of the key aspects of Christianity that help bring about change in somebody's life. It started off as Bible study. That is where most of my free time goes.”
“My life has been blessed by tremendous experiences. I pledge to serve this great community for as long as I can.”
“Puck's been a fighter and a game-winner all his life. This sounds like a tough row to hoe now.”
“He's the most naturally gifted player I have seen in my life. And Keane is still our main man. Even at 34 he's still dominating games.”
“Here, the president seeks not merely to detain temporarily but to dispense life imprisonment and death through a judicial system of his own design.”
“When are we going to start dealing with the facts of life we manufacture the product in Saskatchewan, we ship the jobs to Ontario ? and I am definitely opposed to that.”
“This is a very serious matter. Any loss of human life is tragic, especially if it is a 13-year-old young boy.”
“It was the worst day of my life ever. It couldn't get worse than this.”
“Good ride, cowboy. What a good metaphor for life.”
“She was an expert driver and extraordinarily cautious in every aspect of her life.”
“Everyone says, 'Your life changes, your life changes,' but I enjoyed my life too much. This idea came to me that would incorporate my love for the outdoors and hiking with a new child. The Grateful Dads was born.”
“We're simulating a real-life disaster to identify the types of situations we could potentially face.”
“There have been continuous, demonstrable improvements in patient outcomes, patient safety, and quality of life for patients suffering from kidney failure.”
“Life used to be stable in the camera business. But if you look at what happened to the personal computer industry, I think it's logical to think that the same sort of consolidation would take place in the camera industry.”
“Secondary metabolites are bioactive compounds that are only produced at select times during the life cycle of the organism.”
“As a [program director] your life depends on adding the right songs.”
“This is one of the proudest days of my life, if not the proudest, ... From humble beginnings ... I find myself in one of the greatest places, Dodger Stadium, with one of the greatest franchises of all-time.”
“We're always sharing the importance of education with them. It's plain - in order to succeed in life, you've got to get an education.”
“Life is easier is when you are ignorant. Closing your eyes to the problems allows people to become sicker and sicker.”
“It took a long time, but I have learned that you just can't take anything you want out of life without putting something back in exchange.”
“But then I became so disillusioned.... I had very little life experience and certainly no technique to deal with comedy with any flair.”
“And if real life was like the movies, I should have lived happily ever after.”
“I would risk my life for anybody else.”
“In May 2005, my life was altered drastically. We take for granted the simple words such as 'I love you,' but I appreciate them all.”
“Those medications are taken for life.”
“I once described myself as the most optimistic man in America. Life has taught me to put my faith in the uncounted millions who may never run for office, pass a bill, or craft a sound bite, but who fight our wars and embody the ideals worth fighting for. My contemporaries have been called the greatest generation. It's not a title we bestowed on ourselves, any more than we asked for the hand that history dealt us in our youth. Now I belong to a disappearing generation, perhaps five million in all, forever bonded by the tests we faced so long ago.”
“As his last words before being hung 'Such as life.”
“He seemed distraught. He thought he and Jessica would be together for life.”
“I was used to the high-speed life of Los Angeles, the traffic and everything. There is this quietness to Maine. It's a lot slower there. It was quite an adjustment.”
“Our residents will have a significant increase in their quality of life.”
“Everybody thinks that after you make it as an author, you're set for life. But I had plenty of concerns about what I was going to do with the rest of my life. And there's always pressure to do the next thing and to always be better.”
“This is the most exciting day in my coaching life, ... I want it to be a big deal.”
“This could potentially leapfrog the city past the others in terms of life quality and establish it as a world-class city.”
“I've never seen anything like this in my life.”
“This is by far probably the biggest thing that has ever happened to me in my life, other than getting called at home by Darrell Waltrip one night asking me to drive a truck.”
“He's still not the life of the party, (but) he's come quite a long way.”
“spend every minute of the rest of his natural life in prison without seeing the light of day.”
“It's my hope that he spends every minute of the rest of his life without seeing the light of day and thinking about what he did,”
“What I've always told the defendant through his counsel was that the state would seek life without the possibility of parole, and I like the finality of that.”
“The objective of his life is not just to make money, but to have influence and to follow the heritage of his grandfather.”
“Left-handers don't bother him. He has faced them all his life.”
“Life is a tide; float on it. Go down with it and go up with it, but be detached. Then it is not difficult.”
“I wanted to ensure that consumers would not have to pay higher prices for the life-saving medical devices produced by these two companies,”
“He's larger than life, ... Attalla is a small town. Everybody knows everybody. And everybody is so proud of him.”
“He's larger than life. Attalla is a small town. Everybody knows everybody. And everybody is so proud of him.”
“Sometimes life doesn't go your way. I am just so proud of this team for getting this far. A lot of people wouldn't have thought we would get here.”
“I have only ever read one book in my life, and that is White Fang. It's so frightfully good I've never bothered to read another.”
“The value of the final few years of life to an 80-year-old means he'll spend whatever it costs for a very safe and comfortable car. That older buyer wants the best and latest technology, even if he doesn't understand it.”
“It feels like such a good time in your life.”
“We saw a genuine commitment in her life to making a difference. That commitment, that passion we must all find within ourselves.”
“That translates into notebooks that have [battery life of] 5 hours and beyond.”
“I was just totally blown away by the humor and grace, and ability... to bring her characters to life. The voice is so confiding and so honest.”
“The people I went with were some friends I had grown up with. I'd known them all my life. It really made me think about why everybody around me went and I didn't.”
“Today we live a sad moment, all the Muslims of France, because he who touches a human life touches the life of humanity as a whole,”
“I love playing for him. You try not to think about the future, but it's about quality of life and what's going to happen. We've got to wait and see, but all my support is for him to be here.”
“I vehemently disagree. Is Java at the end of life? We think Java is just kicking in.”
“This building is just an outward manifestation of the vibrant life within the chapel, ... We want to be a creative, generative ministry of vitality and consequence.”
“Life as brother of a prominent personality became a curse to me.... I am a poor brother of a rich man.”
“My life really began when I married my husband.”
“There must have been great yearning and repression in Mohamed Atta's life; it is the torment of Atta's generation. They were placed perilously close to modernity, but they could not partake of it.”
“The completion of this project is the realization of Ronnie's dream: to attract individuals from all walks of life to his library so they might learn about the presidency and American leadership in the world,”
“He died so young whatever purpose he had in life I hope he fulfilled it.”
“You spend one-third of your life in bed, and a good night's sleep has such an incredible impact on how you feel.”
“Nothing in life is guaranteed and I've been preaching that from Day 1, ... We're here this year but we can finish last next year.”
“Because your life was dear to me.”
“It?s a fly-by-the-seat-of-your-pants kind of life. It?s a lot of hard work.”
“I want people to take away from this book that it is in your power to change your love life. You can control having a happy ending to your own fairy tale if you follow my program and are willing to put in the work.”
“They've helped me through some very difficult times in my life.”
“was not so filled with rancor that I have to see him behind bars for the rest of his life.”
“At that time, everyone wished the life would be like the Spring Festival everyday.”
“Nothing in life is guaranteed, and I've been preaching that from Day 1, ... We're here this year, but we can finish last next year.”
“This Quest represents the largest mid-life investment in Nissan's history. We realized the styling of the Quest was polarizing for some owners.”
“Standing together, we won't let a coward like this disrupt our way of life.”
“Culture Day is a vital symbol of the centrality of Jewish life in Europe. It normalizes Jewish ritual and culture for the world we live in and helps show that we are both Jewish and European - and that the two sit perfectly comfortably, side by side.”
“Every day, our staff and volunteers provide a comforting presence to individuals and families facing life-threatening illnesses, grief and loss. Fox Valley Hospice remains committed to providing care that treats the person, not the disease, and emphasizes the quality of life, not the duration.”
“The injury is bad, but it's not a life-altering thing. The whole case was overblown with the racial thing.”
“They have such a hard life, it's heartbreaking, but they don't know they're poor.”
“Mr. Benitez has led a law-abiding life - not even a traffic ticket. Nothing.”
“Mr. Benitez has led a law-abiding life -- not even a traffic ticket. Nothing.”
“Culture Day is a vital symbol of the centrality of Jewish life in Europe, ... It normalizes Jewish ritual and culture for the world we live in and helps show that we are both Jewish and European - and that the two sit perfectly comfortably, side by side.”
“I ask the judge to consider Mark without alcohol. He is kind, fair, considerate, hardworking and full of life. I know he has done wrong. He will pay for it serving his time.”
“It changed my life, ... I was 45 minutes on the edge of dying. You start to value every single moment and see reality as a blessing.”
“one of the best feelings I've ever had in my life.”
“Nothing in life is guaranteed and I've been preaching that from Day 1. We're here this year but we can finish last next year.”
“He's basically a very optimistic, joyful type of guy who really wants to enjoy life, ... Peter Pan character.”
“The collection is about the many-faceted musical forms of Jewish life that were written for religion, theatre or politics.”
“We wanted a lot of activity and a lot of life on the outside of the building. We thought that this is a project that will expand the downtown down Market Street. This was the next big jump.”
“We have two lives, ... We have a life before Garrett, when Garrett was here, and we have a life after Garrett.”
“We didn't want them to have to recreate the wheel, ... In our eyes, Garrett saved Brennan's life because of the things that we've learned.”
“Last year we met with our church leaders. They said there's going to be a point in life when you need to turn things back to God, and you have to decide when that is.”
“(Anderson has) had his life pretty much probed and picked apart.”
“That was one of the saddest moments of my life when I carried him out. Carlos was a hero, my mentor and a friend.”
“One of the most exciting things to do as producers is be able to offer life-changing roles to new actors and Hairspray has presented us with an amazing opportunity to create new stars.”
“It was produced with very deep insight into the life of this performer. It?s the right tribute to who Liza is. People need to focus on the talent, not the tabloid headlines.”
“They are all addressed at the improvement of the life of children. Children are our future we must take care of them with maximum effort.”
“He was able to assess that the situation was life threatening there was some line trailing out of the whale's mouth 25 feet of line and two buoys.”
“It's great to be back. It's fun, at a different sort of chapter in my life, to be able to sit here not so stressed out by the newness of it all.”
“Ratings are a fact of life. We're in this for the long haul. And we have a phenomenal evening of great music that you can't get anywhere else.”
“I think of Gordon Parks as a man who was on a mission his whole life.”
“I've always loved dolls. I had one all my life - we were a family of nine.”
“I've lived here all my life, and I honestly don't understand this place,”
“When you act, you do have to use your own life experiences and bring them onto the stage, dragging those emotions out.”
“We have to admit that we are bringing a couple of life boats.”
“This is no less than a major earthquake in French political life. This is a massive collapse of the French left.”
“Life for these Jewish gauchos was very hard. They had no tractors, suffered from locusts and made a pittance of a living - so my father went to find work in Rosario, married there and eventually brought the whole family over.”
“The appeal is to cover the immediate life-saving and early recovery needs for only the first six months of the emergency phase.”
“This is one of the best experiences so far in my hockey life. The team played great in front of me.”
“I may differ from other Beckett directors, but I do think there is an emotional life to the characters. I know that Beckett and a lot of Beckett actors feel that they must be very flat and far more technical; I personally encourage actors to invest.”
“I mean it was my family but it wasn't, ... I wasn't saying this is my life. I was saying this is a fictitious dysfunctional Latin family, you know, so (family members) wouldn't get wind of it. But they caught on. They knew it was them in disguise.”
“Life is like a sandwich of sh*t and everyday you take a bite.”
“Life is what happens while you're busy making other plans.”
“I haven't left my house in my life. I don't want to leave.”
“I drove the way I lived my life - fast. I took a lot of chances, I didn't think twice.”
“We want him to know we'll give our life for him. We watched the game film of the UC Davis and Oregon games and saw the number of hits he received. We made sure that didn't happen against Washington State. Trent is one of those guys who can lead you to victory against any team as long as you give him time to work.”
“He's been very dismissive of the media all his public life ... There's a certain diffidence. It's not arrogance, [more like] why should I waste my time?”
“You have to take a chance in life, to advance. So there is a risk in anything we do. If we would never take a risk, we would never be in this country what we are.”
“I've got to make some decisions in my life and I'll be making them in the next 24 to 48 hours.”
“The government is, in effect, instructing its forces to shoot innocent people, in complete disregard for the right to life.”
“We're just happy they (the jury) fell on the side of giving him life. But he will serve the rest of life in prison and will never, ever leave a jail cell, and I feel comfortable with that.”
“The whole idea is to take a chance. I mean, what fun is life if you're not taking a chance. I've been taking chances for a long, long time. I took a lot of chances when I was in the CIA,”
“My wife and I lost 90 percent of our life savings.”
“I love the Yankees. The Yankees are my main love in life. Yankee Stadium sounds great, but going to another school district didn't sound good to me at all.”
“It should be only a part of my life, but it isn't. I have only one thing: my work.”
“Heidi's thrilling narration really brings the story to life for all ages.”
“Some people dance through life, not having a steady job or a steady marriage, and this and that.”
“But when it really happens I'm very fascinated, I'm waiting for the moment, because the moment where life abandons you and death steps in, that moment must be fantastic, no?”
“I never had a father, and that was always a big issue in my life.”
“And I've become more honest, more intense in my life without pushing it.”
“Just now, I've been working all the time and I don't have much of a personal life.”
“I'm really nervous, ... Friday night is going to be the worst night of my life. Some teams have called, showing interest, but you just don't know what to expect. I'm just ready to get it over with. I'm tired of running around in shorts; it's time to hit someone.”
“And if you're on a bad team, it's not exactly fun either. I've played this game my whole life, and you couldn't pay me to get in there. I will not stand in there and let someone shoot at me as hard as they can. I'm going to go out and attack them.”
“That's a pretty strong pro-life position. That doesn't necessarily mean that if she were on the court now she would vote to overrule Roe. It might mean that.”
“I believe as they do in the fundamental right to life, and I will help promote respect for the value of the unborn.”
“I don't talk about my personal life with the press.”
“I do like any kind of project that has both comedy and drama in it because in life you don't have one day where everything is funny then the next day everything is dramatic.”
“Tents are the difference between life and death,”
“All my life I have been in love with film and music, and this feels like the best opportunity I have ever had to work with a fusion of the two artistic mediums,”
“There can be no half-measures, he must risk everything and do the race of his life.”
“She has had and has a great deal of difficulty functioning in life in general.”
“She has had and still does have a great deal of difficulty functioning in life, ... Those pictures don't show the absolute amazing trust she placed in him because she loved him.”
“This man has a life as a secret agent, ... This man kills people, this man is a widower. This man is sent out on missions to retrieve someone or something -- he could die.”
“He has been convicted of capital murder and sentenced to life in prison without parole, ... So from a public perspective, he is a very dangerous individual.”
“Every once in awhile we have someone leave because it (the homework) interferes with family life.”
“Your vote is not going to bring Mr. Byrd back. I wish it could. ... Regardless of whether you vote life or death, John William King is a dead man walking.”
“Coach Bowden talked about living the right life, and you can't do anything without Jesus, ... It's something I wanted to do. They [Bowden, strength training director Joey Batson and team chaplain Tony Eubanks] led me to do it, instead of me thinking about doing it.”
“So it was primarily a desire to write about that period in one's life rather than that period in history or in British culture or whatever.”
“He's got quite a personality. He's changed his life more this year and anybody.”
“I now understand what it's like when your parachute doesn't open and your whole life passes before your eyes,”
“This is another large-scale attack on our whole culture and whole way of life. We shouldn't put up with this. It's absolutely ridiculous. It's a violation of common sense.”
“God's been teaching me to let go of my life. And I'm going to let him be in control -- all I have to do is be faithful, and I'll be a blessing to others.”
“Golf has given my life identity, significance and purpose. But what's given me even more identity and significance is my relationship with Christ.”
“After reaching 50, I began to wonder what the root of life is.”
“Twenty-two hours a day in that cell -- a life sentence -- is probably going to punish him more.”
“People have very different perspectives and very different life experiences based on their ethnicity. When you put them in close quarters in a situation designed to highlight cultural and racial differences, you realize they don't really understand each other very well at all.”
“His life was one long extravaganza, like living inside a Faberge egg.”
“His mind started racing. His memories of all the sexual abuse he had incurred over his entire life came flooding back over him. He believed that what he was doing was right, that he had been ordained to do this.”
“A report that Nippon Life may shift away from U.S. dollar bonds has also supported yen buying.”
“These were wonderful people enjoying life to the fullest.”
“Access to the Internet today is as much a necessity of life as the more traditional services and should be available to all.”
“I'm hoping they can breathe new life into 'Frasier,'”
“Life is what you make it: If you snooze, you lose; and if you snore, you lose more.”
“I hate to use the old cliche about how it will improve the quality of life. But it's true.”
“This is a real life example of IBM working with clients to generate new ideas and innovative solutions that deliver business value. The project allows our researchers to utilize the global industry assets we have like the Insurance Application Architecture and Insurance Information Warehouse and further refine them for future engagements.”
“Isn't the saying that if you do something you love, you'll never work a day in your life? If you try to paint for the market, then what you're doing becomes a job. Once someone starts to lose passion for what they're doing, you can see it in their work. … There are so many good artists throughout history who did not start until late.”
“The prevalence of dry eye is very high, and growing. Dry eye impacts the quality of life, as well as the physical health, of 10 million Americans each year.”
“I'm going to miss it terribly. I know that. It's been a major part of my life. So, it's going to be a new adjustment.”
“Everything has to change. We have to make a better life for our children.”
“If I can spend the rest of my life with my daughter seeing her smile each and every day and have forgiveness in my heart, then it's a peaceful day.”
“It's great when they call us and tell us what's going on, and they are excited about a new life free of addictions. Most addicts don't want to be addicts.”
“They're 10 years ahead of us over there. That was the best time of my life. They (Japanese) don't just let anyone in, but once they see that you can hit home runs they love you.”
“It will be a definite challenge for him. Maybe he got bored with his life. He can do just as much from the corporate seats being an owner than he can from behind the bench. You have to have the type of person who will get (ticked) off and motivate. He's too nice of a guy. It's hard to get mad at a guy like that. As nice a player as he was on the ice, he was a nicer guy off of it. You need a coach to get in your face.”
“I thought Philo's life chronology was right on the money. He would have known about a bright little Jewish boy.”
“If they hadn't worn their life preservers, they would be dead.”
“It's a place not fit for human habitation. It's a miserable place, and life is very difficult for the people.”
“This position requires a person with the talent and life experience to handle family matters firmly, fairly and compassionately.”
“The summer of 1943 at Exeter was as happy a time as I ever had in my life.”
“All human life is there. [Slogan]”
“The youngsters gave the seniors a new lease on life on Friday. It was their time and they didn't want to leave without the opportunity to win a state title.”
“We came out slow again and it's the story of our life. Maybe I'll have to start slapping kids or something.”
“No man has come to true greatness who has not felt that his life belongs to his race, and that which God gives to him, He gives him for mankind.”
“We may be at the end of a 40-year cycle of bitterness. I've spent enough of my life fighting. It would be nice to spend some time constructing, and I think that there's a feel in the country that's very similar.”
“(Sunday), I didn't see a lot of life ? both teams. It was a dull type of game. We need some life. Barry will bring some expectations. When he comes to the plate, he will bring life to the fans and the team. I know I'm going to take the front seat (today).”
“Paul Coverdell lived a life that we can all be proud of and look up to,”
“Flowers, beautiful flowers, children, humanity, lovely, love, life, embrace all - please!”
“The two things I was positive about in life were that I was going to be a teacher at a boarding school or an operative with the CIA posted abroad. I could write a book about all the things I was sure about.”
“He was a very close friend who I would have trusted with my life, ... I've always referred to him as my walking encyclopedia.”
“The quality of attachment (early in life) predicts later development, positive relationships with peers, teachers and performance in school.”
“The life and legacy of Ronald Reagan so shifted the paradigm of the American Presidency and the character of our nation that it becomes easy to overlook some of the smaller, more personal changes he brought to his office.”
“[To make her own life easier, Lynette will attempt to] chill Nina out with massages and aromatherapy, ... But finally, she figures that what Nina really needs is (sex).”
“His life was duck hunting on Little Tail Point, and if we should be so lucky, he died in his duck blind some eight to 10 years ago at the age of 81.”
“It doesn't matter what you do in life, you always have the opportunity to get where you want to be. If you want to achieve your dream, just keep working hard at it. No matter what you do, you can get to where you want to get.”
“Life is not measured by the number of breaths we take, but by the moments that take our breath away.”
“I'm an encourager. I believe I've learned a lot from what I call the university of life.”
“This is as bad and divisive a period in town life as I've seen. It's painful to see what it's come to.”
“I've never been that nervous my entire life.”
“He'd never shot a movie before in his life, so the learning curve for him was phenomenal. He didn't know a close-up from a two-shot. But what he did know, and was doggedly committed to, was this story.”
“This is to celebrate Brittany's life and to promote the (Gillette) complex and Wilson,”
“Later in life, I'd like to work on becoming a paramedic and receiving some higher training. This is a good start.”
“He had me sing 'Lush Life' with him, which is such a beautiful song. But the lyrics are so depressing. My brother insisted I do it. It came out really nice, but I have a hard time dealing with the words.”
“Best night of my life!”
“The Mir has lived a wonderful life and must end it in a graceful way,”
“Water brings life, it refreshes, purifies, regenerates, bears fruit and also reminds us of our own baptism,”
“The purpose of this purchase is to extend the life of our Vactor truck by decreasing the wear and tear caused by the jetting function,”
“It's a hectic life, don't get me wrong. We're busy all the time, and people can see that when they watch us perform day after day. But we love meeting our fans and making them a part of the action as well.”
“He had a lot of life to live.”
“I feel like there is [life left as a player]. Obviously, I've got to make sure this heals well but then I should be okay. Given my age, I felt so fit and really great. I was enjoying it and playing well so it's just a frustrating thing to happen.”
“This creates the possibility of an entirely new book-promotion event that will inject new life into the marketing of books and authors' relationship with their readers.”
“[It] will inject new life into the marketing of books.”
“U-life will become its own brand, its own lifestyle. The same key can be used to get on the subway, pay a parking meter, see a movie, borrow a free public bicycle and so on. It'll be anonymous, won't be linked to your identity, and if lost you can quickly cancel the card and reset your door lock.”
“That was probably the longest night of my life. I didn't sleep really well for a while after that trip.”
“She's worked all her life.”
“I think he taught people the dignity of life and the dignity going into that last phase, toward death,”
“I really enjoyed the first four years. It was the happiest stage of my life but everything went wrong after Camacho quit. He showed he was a Madrid supporter but he left the club less affected than me.”
“It is our judgment there is life left in the diplomatic process.”
“In six games so far I can't remember us creating so many chances. But that's football, that's life in general. No one said it would be easy,”
“I call it quality of life. There will be some people who like baseball. There will be some people who like football, and some who like soccer. Of course, you would think some in the area would want to have a chance to try gymnastics.”
“I think I had to live a life (before doing this). For some reason I have had success playing the suffering souls so that the last stages (of the Pope's life) were comfortable for me,”
“I don't want to sit at home and do nothing, ... I want to do something with my life so in the future when I'm old, I can look back and say I fought the good fight.”
“I've gone through a lot of stuff in my life,”
“The generation that is coming up has lived its entire life in the shadow of HIV, and that's frankly one of the concerns that we have. Because of a certain comfort level that this generation has with HIV, in part because of the advances in treatment and those young people being able to see that they can live with HIV, there is an increased complacency among young people.”
“When life hands you lemons go ahead and throw them at someone.”
“My father was nothing more than a memory for me at that point. I didn't want to go through life like that.”
“Just starting a new life and not knowing where your family is or what's going on [is hard].”
“You appreciate that it is very easy to die and you have to arrange your life to cope with that reality.”
“renewal of my life insurance policy.”
“As an athlete in college, you learn life skills from being part of a team. That translates so well to the workplace - how to work with other people, how to relate.”
“I have spent some of the most intense and best years of my life as president of the club.”
“I told you it was a great deal. I never met a man in my life until I met you that wouldn't accept a deferred prosecution agreement.”
“His life reads like a movie that requires a big bag of popcorn.”
“From the first page of the book...[Roosevelt's] life reads like a movie that requires a big bag of popcorn, ... We start at 25, as he begins to transform himself through sheer force of will from this asthmatic, nearsighted 125-pounder to this Sherman tank of a man so tough that he once got shot on the way to make a speech and completed his talk, bleeding with a bullet in his chest.”
“From the first page of the book...[Roosevelt's] life reads like a movie that requires a big bag of popcorn. We start at 25, as he begins to transform himself through sheer force of will from this asthmatic, nearsighted 125-pounder to this Sherman tank of a man so tough that he once got shot on the way to make a speech and completed his talk, bleeding with a bullet in his chest.”
“He is fully conscious. We talked about everything. He told me one must address life with a bit of philosophy and to me it seemed that his situation, given what he has been through, is normal.”
“the most important thing I've ever done in my life.”
“It's the greatest race I could win being from Ohio and I've been doing this all my life.”
“Anna is in the best shape of her life. She has yet to run a great cross country meet but she has worked hard and she's our top runner. Kayla has put in a lot of miles this summer and she's our best practice runner.”
“You have some time to prove your life is back on track here... don't mess it up,”
“I think that people who are capable of such things can only fantasize about sex and in real life are not capable of anything, ... So these people should be forgiven.”
“Clearly, that was something he was going to devote his life to.”
“Evolution is the most plausible explanation for life if you're using naturalistic terms, I'll agree with that.”
“It's taken a lot of spontaneity out of life. We're not walking around as independent individuals making decisions and confronting people around us. It's reducing experience.”
“She realized that women don't always get a fair break in life.”
“This place really trains you for work and life. My parents wanted me to attend an arts university, but I convinced them that it would be a waste of time. Bunka really prepares you for what's to come later, after graduation. And I don't have to worry that much about getting employment. Companies trust the Bunka label.”
“The school is no longer the center of social life. Kids are either working to help their families or hanging on the street corner.”
“Every song I write, even if it's fiction, I have to draw from something in my life to connect it with before it rings true, ... Early on in my career, I had points where I felt like I may have run out of ideas. Now I know that if I'm short of ideas, I need to take some time off and let the well fill up ... and live life because that's where the best songs come from.”
“I suppose more than anything, it's the way of life in this part of the country that influences my writing. In Eastern North Carolina, with the exception of Wilmington, most people live in small towns.”
“The loss of life and injury in New Mexico due to alcohol-related crimes has to stop.”
“As for writing the second novel, the pressure was immense, but hey, what's life without a little challenge? I just sat down and forced myself to write and in the end, it sold as many copies as the first novel did.”
“This is one of the greatest thrills of my life. It's a wonderful college where they can teach you everything from Shakespeare to welding, and I'm just glad to be a part of it.”
“I still have a hard time talking about it. My injury was the worst thing that happened in my life, but the team and my family helped me a whole lot.”
“I'm excited. I'm just excited. (My daughter) is going to be happy for the rest of her life.”
“She's got a lot of knowledge of how to basically ruin someone's life, and I just didn't wanna leave it ... like her angry at us.”
“I have dedicated my life to promoting this and I now have that opportunity. I have been blessed and I want to share my experiences with as many swimmers as possible.”
“I think it would be hard, because you've got to suddenly change your life drastically.”
“If you teach a young person that their life has no value, they'll treat their life like their life has no value. They will do things that show that they don't really respect themselves, such as use drugs or attempt suicide or engage in unprotected sex.”
“It was unbearable to watch them. Who thinks losing feels good? It affects your life. It affects your family, everybody around you. It's a disappointment. It's been depressing. We still have one game to try to keep our heads up high, but basically it hurts.”
“Everybody has off-field problems at some stage in their life. What you've got to do is be able to handle those problems and make sure they don't affect your work - and I'm sure Paul will be able to do that.”
“Everywhere across whatever sorrows of which our life is woven, some radiant joy will gaily flash past.”
“If the economy falters, so does the way of life. The economy has to be strong for society to be strong.”
“Some players win a lot of trophies, but few leave a mark on life, ... Andre will leave a mark that will last longer than those who did more statistically because he had an impact on people's lives.”
“I've never had a green beer in my entire life. Oh, how I love Ireland. When she's doing well, I feel good; when she's not, I feel poorly.”
“I hugged Troy, and I don't think I've ever touched Troy in my entire life.”
“More or less, this is the life blood of our company.”
“not ''pro-life or pro-choice.”
“Randy has dedicated his adult life to this program,”
“My family is the most important thing in my life. It is the greatest gift I have got. My marriage seven years ago touched my soul and helped me to gain further stability.”
“I've had the time of my life this week. I can't really explain it, just having a good time and practicing hard. We know we have a game, but we've all tried to enjoy everything. This is an awesome city.”
“Their story resonated with me, because it wasn't that long ago that I had dreams of getting ahead in life. These kids may have made mistakes, but they were robbed of their dreams.”
“Whatever. ... You can't live your life in fear. Technically, I could sit down at this computer where I'm about to sit down and I could contract a disease and die tomorrow.”
“We are still at life-saving stage,”
“There's one thing in everybody's life, one passion you have. In work, Morehead State is a passion of mine.”
“It came as a shocker to some degree. Such is life. It wasn't meant to be.”
“The introduction of identity cards will usher in one of the most far-reaching changes in British public life in recent times.”
“I'm pretty upset. This is four years of my life that I've put into this program.”
“Lucy is really a different character to play. She starts off, she doesn't really have what she wants in life. She's trying to find it. She finally finds it in Dracula. She changes for him. It's a complete change for me. I have to completely change for the end. It's challenging to act out at times.”
“I guess Frasier and I have always looked for the same thing in life: being happy and making an honest living, trying to do some good in the world and changing a few minds if we can. Or at least lifting somebody's burden for a time.”
“If we intend to provide a better life, and a better world, for future generations, we can't ignore the quality of the environment we leave them.”
“I just realized that I am going to have a few more matches in my life because I am going to play football (at Washington State) next year. So I have a different mentality now. I know it's almost over and I have to make it count.”
“The best decision I've made in my whole life was to come to the University of Nevada. I don't regret anything about it. I don't have any hatred toward any of the coaches that didn't recruit me.”
“Whatever he wants to do with his life...we just want all the possibilities to be there for him.”
“Self-help books are making life downright unsafe. Women desperate to catch a man practice all the ploys recommended by these authors. Bump into him, trip over him, knock him down, spill something on him, scald him, but meet him.”
“I don't know for how long Japan can maintain the world's highest longevity. If eating habits change, life expectancy will shorten and this has already been made clear.”
“It effected my life so much I had to tell her story in stone. I had to let it out somehow, all that stress, tension, worry and concern is in this piece.”
“My life has never been easy. It's like all the major events of my life have always been difficult.”
“I've skated all my life, and I've never come close to hitting my head. I never wore a helmet. I never even thought of it.”
“Some matters will affect his entire life, including his employment.”
“You want to enjoy life, don't you? If you get your job done quickly and your job is fun, that's good isn't it? That's the purpose of life, partly. Your life is better.”
“Ken has revamped his life - mind, body and soul. Everyone knows how difficult it is to change, especially when you've lived your life a certain way for more than four decades.”
“Women candidates in Afghanistan are courageously defying the Taliban, warlords, and conservative social norms that exclude them from public life.”
“It's very disappointing. But, life goes on. It happened. We didn't want it to happen; it shouldn't have happened, but we didn't play Colts ball, and unfortunately, we got an L.”
“I've played two sports my whole life. I don't know what I'd do playing only one. I need to keep myself busy. I definitely need something to do.”
“Those that receive Christ receive life.”
“Ken has revamped his life – mind, body and soul. Everyone knows how difficult it is to change, especially when you've lived your life a certain way for more than four decades.”
“I think she would say her life was a gift, and ... basically the most important thing about her is she gave that gift away every day of her life, ... She inspired so many kids.”
“They don't help you at all. It's pretty much your general knowledge and what you've accumulated throughout your life.”
“I expect to be with her the rest of my life.”
“Ken has revamped his life -- mind, body and soul. Everyone knows how difficult it is to change, especially when you've lived your life a certain way for more than four decades.”
“This memorial garden, designed to spring into life each September, will be a living memorial to the alumni who were lost. It is a quiet place to reflect about the importance of friends, family and life, amidst a turbulent world.”
“I need two things in my life - football and a good woman, and I have a good woman.”
“Hump it, bump it, whack it! It might be a recipe for a good sex life, but it won't win the World Cup.”
“A mortal lives not through that breath that flows in and that flows out. The source of his life is another and this causes the breath to flow.”
“Regardless of how I played, this was the best week of my life. It would have been the best week of my life if I had finished up on Wednesday, really. Being here for the first time you just want to soak up the experience as much as you can. But it also makes you hungry to get back, and prove that you really do belong.”
“I want to solve problems I meet in the daily life by using computers, so I need to write programs. By using Ruby, I want to concentrate the things I do, not the magical rules of the language, like starting with public void something something something to say, "print hello world." I just want to say, "print this!" I don't want all the surrounding magic keywords.”
“Don't feel sorry for me. ... I have a great life.”
“The trouble with life in the fast lane is that you get to the other end in an awful hurry”
“There have been some things that have happened over the years that have been really special in my life, and this is one of them.”
“Everybody in America is soft, and hates conflict. The cure for this, both in politics and social life, is the same -- hardihood. Give them raw truth.”
“I dropped an interception that would have sealed the deal. I'll probably see that play the rest of my life. I let it slip through my fingers.”
“This is my life. I'm going to be doing playing music and writing until the day I die. It's what I do. I don't have any other choices.”
“They were able to have a very successful life and business and family. They were surely what I would call the American Dream story.”
“Volunteers represent all ages and walks of life. We have college students as well as retirees. Everyone helps however they can. For some, this means doing the actual repairs. Others, we call the support team, run errands and bring food, water and Gatorade to those on site.”
“Dr. Who is my greatest passion in life.”
“It's quite a difficult life. I don't know how an individual keeps on going. I can feel what he's going through. His life is so difficult. To do that sort of extreme lifestyle year after year, it's hard.”
“We're exploring life without Shaq, ... and enjoying it, too.”
“But the moment a bird was dead, no matter how beautiful it had been in life, the pleasure of possession became blunted for me.”
“People will put up with a lot to be here, but that doesn't mean you have to make their life miserable, ... I set a tone that I want to be surrounded by thinking artists . . . I'm willing to manage their quirks, and my quirks, but it can't just be drama for drama's sake. Being a great artist doesn't mean you have to be crazy-out-of-your-mind temperamental.”
“My father... sailed as a sea captain to the West Indies, where in 1785 I found light and life in the New World.”
“You do come to a point where you can get your life in control a bit. But going through life, you discover these deep, dark things in yourself that you can't run away from, so you have to learn to embrace them. I mean, the difference between a murderer and myself is only that I choose not to do it. But I'm totally capable.”
“If you're older you want to tell stories about the pool of human life and living and to communicate, not only to your age group but to do an age group that can begin to understand, that has enough experience of life far beyond the taste of life.”
“I never felt comfortable in real life very well. It's always been an awkward kind of thing for me and so when I hit the stage I just sensed freedom. I sensed here's a place that I can have all the experiences of life and not feel uncomfortable about it.”
“At this point, he's fighting for his life. It's about as bad as it can get.”
“Lance, as you can imagine, doesn't really keep me up-to-date on his love life since he doesn't trust me a whole lot.”
“She had a plan for entering a religious life.”
“To see his reaction when he won was the most intense feeling I have ever felt in my life. This is incredible.”
“I was basically able to seamlessly pick up my life where I left it off.”
“We thought we could win but obviously we did not. Ah well, that's life.”
“It's been tough, seeing some of the faces in the clubhouse that know him personally, the life is drained out of them. Seeing Torii Hunter today made me a little emotional to see how shook he was. It's definitely a tough day.”
“I've got a different perception now and it's really enjoyable to be at this point in your life and be able to watch this,”
“My show is my statement. What I have to say is on the screen. My life is my own. I don't want to talk about my private self. Why should I?”
“The response that I've had from it tells me that it's worthy of a life after me. I think that it transcends generations.”
“We've had people leave for a number of reasons, including job transfers and life situations. We really need to get some new blood involved. We have 15 or 20 guys that probably only have three or four years left.”
“I've always known my life would be turned into a farce. I'm just glad it's been entrusted to two such distinguished men of letters.”
“I feel like the life of a songwriter is a privilege, and to be fortunate enough to make a living doing it, part of my responsibility is to be honest, ... So when part of my life is exposed on the radio, it doesn't bother me. I just feel that's my job.”
“He has not touched in a criminal manner in his entire life.”
“Unfortunately, it's a fact of life that when you have a review, investors tend to penalize the stock.”
“The dialysis lets the patient live a close to normal life so they can be a grandparent or go to work.”
“For the most part, I think players should take life with a grain of salt and focus a little more on the opportunities at hand. I take bad beats pretty easily because I've seen far worse beats in Third-World countries.”
“[On conveying values,] there is a sense that these things go on throughout their life, ... it's not a matter of 'tell me from scratch,' but a sense that these dimensions of our relationship at the end of the day may be more important than a thousand dollars here or $100,000 there.”
“I think the courageous speech would have been to continue to stand strongly in defense of the sanctity of life, ... We will fight him on this to the very end.”
“It's a sense of doing something that can improve the quality of life for people, ... Of course I admire (Trotsky), I think he was an incredibly visionary individual.”
“Nudes are the greatest to paint. Everything you can find in a landscape or a still life or anything else is there: darkness and light, character dimension, texture. I painted heads too, of course.”
“It's not believed that his condition is life-threatening.”
“His life has really opened up since I made him a Senator”
“In all my life, my hands have never been perspiring as much as they did when I went up to get that award. In the whole series, even on the last day at the Oval, I was not as nervous as then.”
“They're just sweet and wanting to get in school and get life back to normal as possible.”
“It is basically sharing food and time with people who are special in your life.”
“Bring him on so we can get some life in this town!”
“People go to work so they can build a better life for themselves and their families. Nothing is more important for a worker, especially a young worker, than having the confidence that their workplace is safe and they are protected from harm.”
“What the show deals with is how difficult it can be. It involves people from every walk of life and they all take an enormous risk.”
“I reached that stage in my life when I could see it as murder, mayhem and robbery. It was the same as any other criminal organization. It didn't end up being what I thought it would be.”
“Scientists believe they may have discovered a primitive form of life on Jupiter's moon Europa. That primitive form of life? You guessed it, Frank Stallone.”
“He is the most misperceived person I have known in my life in sports.”
“There have been only two people I have written a letter to in my life and he's one of them. It was during a time when he was getting crucified and I wound it up by saying, `If there was ever a guy I want to be in a foxhole with, who I know would have my back, it would be you.' Anyone who knows Jerry feels the same way.”
“The information that people provide us when they are in the midst of, or recovering from, a life-altering event includes Social Security number, income levels, very personal information. We take our charge to protect that information very seriously.”
“I think anyone whose life has been turned upside down by a disaster has been traumatized. We want to help as many people as we can and that's what we're trying to do.”
“It would be a false sense of security to rely on FEMA to rebuild a life the way it was before a disaster.”
“Take the spirit of the occasion into your heart. It's a very important event in your life, that you'll be able to take as you get older, when you become a father,”
“The government has accepted that migration is a fact of life,”
“It's quality of life. The players already know the building is full, the building is loud, the fans are knowledgeable, the organization is committed to winning and the practice facility is second to none. Players talk about that stuff all the time.”
“No cartoon is worth a human life. But what is happening has more to do with the situation in the Middle East than 12 cartoons in a Danish newspaper.”
“I think no matter what walk of life we're in or who we are, we all have that connection with our father because we are small in the beginning and they're big so there's this awesome regard for dad,”
“I Am Roe: My Life, Roe v. Wade, and Freedom of Choice.”
“Many people find applying for life assurance confusing and tend to put off buying decisions. We aim to make the process as quick and easy as possible with premiums amongst the cheapest available,”
“There is a clear link between protecting your car and home and protecting your life. So life insurance was a logical addition to the AA's range.”
“They'll take care of your pet for life.”
“The Life of David Gale.”
“Global sourcing has become a way of life for retailers, manufacturers, and other industries. New sourcing locations provide a variety of products, components, technology, and repair and service options at competitive costs.”
“They put so much effort and so much energy, for so many years, into giving this kid a life.”
“These were not directed against Muslims, but against people in cultural life in Europe who are submitting themselves to self-censorship when dealing with Islam.”
“His doctors have assured him he'll live a long, healthy and productive life.”
“Possibly the most important phase to recovery is getting the life back to normal again, ... And what we're talking about here in Corvallis is assisting people who want to get their lives back to normal, and who cannot go back to the life that is in the Gulf Coast because of Katrina.”
“Honestly, it was the best week of my life.”
“Everything in life doesn't always work out exactly as you hope.”
“When I finally realized how it has affected my life, I felt like smashing it, throwing it out the window. Now my compulsion is to try and understand what I've done to myself and my family.”
“We don't know how long each individual will end up living, but they certainly have a longer life expectancy than average because they're most likely not going to die from a heart attack, stroke or diabetes.”
“This place saved my life. I was always on drugs, living the fast life. That's why she left me [mother of his children]. I know it sounds like jailhouse religion, but he [God] wants you to come to him in your hour of need.”
“Too popular. It's just too overexposed. Anybody with a computer who never played poker in their life can win the World Series of Poker.”
“I think it's great that UNCA tries to keep its alumni involved with campus life through the awards and all of the other events that we invite our alumni to attend,”
“I think it's great that UNCA tries to keep its alumni involved with campus life through the awards and all of the other events that we invite our alumni to attend.”
“One night, our captors took us downstairs, sat us in front of the TV, and showed us the life of Jesus on DVD in Arabic. But these are the people who shot Tom Fox in the head. People are very complex. Also, I think they wanted to keep us happy, so that we wouldn't try any desperate escape.”
“He refuses to let life get the best of him. He refuses to be overcome. He's the one who does the overcoming.”
“It kind of gives focus back on regular life. Everybody's so focused on getting hurricane repairs completed and stuff like this. This is kind of a break and it gives everybody a chance to look at something different, and get your mind off of what is going on.”
“The Secret Life of Germs”
“It was not just a Sunday thing. It was their life.”
“Dignify and glorify common labor. It is at the bottom of life that we must begin, not at the top.”
“But God gives hope. It is new life brought forth from death.”
“This is going to be the first generation that's going to have a lower life expectancy than their parents. It's like the plague is in town and no one is interested.”
“There was no one ever in American life who was remotely like Truman Capote. Small wonder, then, if people are still fascinated by him.”
“Preparing for the Game of Life.”
“Sean has proved a lot of people wrong his whole life. He's a great story.”
“Oh man, just getting my life together ... I love you, man.”
“I think that's what breathes the life into me, keeps me going. Not that I'm stale, but I'm still learning. I ask a lot of questions, and people might ask why. It's because I want to know. I take mental notes and I'm very critical of myself because every week I want to be the best defensive back on the field.”
“We have food, ham chips, drinks, anything needed to sustain life. We were here when it hit. We had never been in a hurricane. It was an eye-opening experience. It was a shock.”
“My whole life has been comics, and this store has really been my dream all of my life. Because of it, I've gotten to meet all of my heroes.”
“At the end of the program, I tried to talk to the kids a little bit about life skills.”
“They've got to convince voters it has to do with making a better state, making a better life for them and repairing the state, repairing the state's governance in a way that ultimately benefits its citizens.”
“I was given the best part of my life, basically, and I know that.”
“There are a lot of things going on with my life right now that don't just have to do with career. So I have a hard time making decisions about work. That's really a luxury problem.”
“It's about teaching life skills and easing the transition after graduation. Not all athletes are going pro-in fact, very few are, ... But even being a professional athlete doesn't define you as a person ... It doesn't define who you are as a male or female, athlete or non-athlete at the collegiate level or in the real world.”
“At this point he is anxious to find a place where he can devote the rest of his life to penance, prayer and some peace.”
“I'd trust her with my wife and with my life,”
“A number of businesses promote the theater because the quality of life is just as important as their bottom line.”
“I guess you could say that above all, he loved to live life to its fullest.”
“I've never shot like that in my life. And as a team that's pretty good for us, especially for never having played in Augusta before, coming out and shooting that well. That was good for us.”
“Apple is committed to supporting our customers and protecting the environment throughout the entire product life cycle, from purchase through to retirement.”
“The male suffered some minor first- and second-degree burns to his arms. But the most life-threatening injuries were due to the toxic smoke the two inhaled.”
“Apple is committed to supporting our customers and protecting the environment throughout the entire product life cycle, from purchase through to retirement.”
“By nature of its unlimited potential, Second Life has already attracted a large community of creative individuals from a wide range of disciplines. By creating the Linden Lab Fellowship, we hope that we will encourage students of the expressive arts to explore the potential of the virtual world, for the benefit of both the Second Life culture and the broader world of art.”
“Baseball is our way of life!”
“He has just lived through the most intense moments of his life. He is still away in his cosmos.”
“The prime minister has chosen to acknowledge publicly the sovereignty of God and the claim of God on her life. Hers is the challenge to live up to that claim.”
“It's a tricky place, because these songs are our life and death. To have anything come between the people who buy the record and the songs themselves is really hard to hear as a musician.”
“[Does he get carded when he goes out?] No, ... In real life, do I look young for my age? Absolutely. But not young enough where someone would think I was 18.”
“I mainly have a nice time in my life.”
“Assets like Standard Life don't come about every day. They have sizeable market share in the UK and a number of players would be interested in the company.”
“Context and memory play powerful roles in all the truly great meals in one's life.”
“The roll cage saved my life, ... But then maybe if it had not been for the roll cage, I might have jumped off. You never know.”
“Everybody thinks they'll never get married at your age. You think you can go on all your life being single, but you suddenly find out that you can't.”
“The last two years, in particular, we've really made huge steps. He's a very, very large part of my life, not only professionally, but personally.”
“They are the ones that said my life story is an asset. I have spent my entire life walking quietly and avoiding attention. This is not something I sought out.”
“I imagined Theo was going to be general manager for the rest of my life.”
“I learned to look at my life insurance policy as soon as I can get the office open. We're going to hurt somebody really bad Sunday if we don't find some way of calming this down soon.”
“You won't really get a lot of the mainstream, lovey-dovey side because that wasn't a part of my life in the beginning.”
“He's back to being himself. Volleyball has just been part of his life for so long that he's got be around volleyball.”
“Nobody likes to talk about it, but if one of them were to lose their life, they'd be in a world of financial hurt.”
“[Santana] appeared to have good life on his fastball, he mixes in a changeup, and he has a good breaking ball. It seemed to me that they worked us outside the whole series. We need to make an adjustment there.”
“The Bible is the word of God and his word is life itself.”
“One of the strangest things about life is that the poor, who need the money the most, are the ones that never have it.”
“Only an artist can interpret the meaning of life.”
“He will sleep on the bed for the rest of his life.”
“[President Bush sent a message of] heartfelt sympathy, ... remarkable life of musical ministry.”
“It's the best day of my life. A victory here was my lifetime dream.”
“I been doing music my whole life.”
“It is an extraordinary piece of real estate. The fellow that developed this first off recognized that. Pumping new life into it, remaking it, if we didn't do it, someone else would have.”
“I think football is a positive aspect for Cam's life; I think it would be a positive move for him.”
“Today I choose life. Every morning when I wake up I can choose joy, happiness, negativity, pain... To feel the freedom that comes from being able to continue to make mistakes and choices - today I choose to feel life, not to deny my humanity but embrace it.”
“We felt this problem was so momentous it deserved specialization. This whole problem has life after the year 2000. All of the problems won't be solved once the Millennium comes.”
“May God bless you with a long life.”
“In this game, and in this life, you don't get respect until you earn it.”
“Each month we try to focus on a different life skill and February's was proper etiquette.”
“What I've been through in my life, I'm basically doing this for the kids. People who think they can't make it, I'm showing them that you can.”
“It's amazing how a simple housewife's life touched so many people.”
“Not only is it annoying to mobile customers, it also disrupts social life and damages the telecom operator's credit standing.”
“With these favorable policies, Chinese farmers are not far from enjoying a new life of tax-free farming, free education and cheap medication.”
“I just remember it being a very special time. It's something you'll remember for the rest of your life. I would just like for our players at TCA to get the chance to make it to state.”
“'World Almanac' Publisher Makes a Life Compiling Trivia.”
“Age is not different from earlier life as long as you’re sitting down.”
“Friends are the adventures of life.”
“My father's life seemed and still seems utterly mysterious to me. He came alone to the States from Russia at age eleven.”
“When a man is struggling for his life, and groups and people are passing all sorts of judgments, it's very distasteful.”
“Don't let this be the best thing that ever happens in your life. Maybe it'll be the best sports event, but don't let it be the best thing. Make sure you're a better father than this today. Make sure you're a better husband than this today. Because this goes away. ... It's a game.”
“You have a day and a half-life with this football team. This has been a fun ride with these kids, starting with last season's Rose Bowl.”
“I've been wanting to sing for a long time. I've been singing all my life, and I've tried different record companies, but it seemed like - it was such a struggle and so hard to get out there. So, I said, "I'm gonna go on American Idol and see how far it takes me."”
“You know your life is different when your first call is from the president of the United States at 6 in the morning, and your wife asks you if you want to take it.”
“It's going to be hard to live with if he gets that 14 years. We had a life sentence imposed on us with no time off for good behavior.”
“I told her that I loved her like I've never loved anyone before. I couldn't imagine my life without her.”
“People said, 'That's going to be around your neck for the rest of your life. I didn't have a problem with it.”
“That's life. That's the way it goes.”
“A lovely old lady who has been looking after her 97-year-old friend and her life has been taken away from her for somebody who wanted cheap money to buy drugs.”
“I would say if you're ranked No. 1, you better be really good, because it takes on a life of its own. Everyone complained that we had the best recruiting class in country but we only won 10 games. I said, 'Yeah, I know, we were terrible.' Chris Simms finished as the school's all-time passing leader, Cory Redding starts for Detroit, and some people think that class wasn't a success.”
“I felt like an extraordinary hero. I was only five or six and I had the whole of life in my hands. Even if I had been driving the carriage of the sun I could not have felt any better.”
“Just things that I've never experienced in my life.”
“I don't think I have ever traveled as well in a Classic in my life.”
“[Rob] was really trying to clean up his life. He had dropped out of school, and he had gone back and he was going every day and playing lacrosse for the school.”
“Japan's group mentality leads people to travel in predictable waves. So the secret of a happy, stress-free life in Japan is to do everything 'wrong.”
“That was a different life for me, ... Golf and hockey are different games with a different set of skills. But maybe some of the competitiveness from hockey rubs off on golf.”
“Every painting has a life story, and part of the story of this Monet is an extremely painful one. However, its latest chapters may be triumphant.”
“And now, suddenly you discover that almost everything is behind you, and that life has its limits,”
“When they see that water running over the falls, they're looking at their life blood going to the ocean. It's not just a problem for farmers, it's a problem for everyone.”
“My life changed over seven years; his life has changed over two. He's getting pulled at from every direction, but I think he's handling it good. I don't see where it's changed him at all. Maybe it's confused him because he gets hit with (stuff) he don't want to worry about. He wants to do all the same stuff he always wanted to do. He just loves to race.”
“It's kinda like building three houses in one building. ... Essentially one-third of your life is at the fire station.”
“You'll never forget the rest of your life the 2006 Final Four right here in Indianapolis. I want to encourage you to soak it up in walk through, in shoot around, being in the hotel, hanging out with your teammates, the fans, the whole world watching on TV CBS.”
“There's nothing to prepare you for what he and his family went through. That's where you separate football and life.”
“While the Endangered Species Act has failed miserably at saving rare plants and animals, it has excelled in making life miserable for many in the human population.”
“When love is out of your life, you're through in a way. Because while it is there it's like a motor that's going, you have such vitality to do things, big things, because love is goosing you all the time.”
“He laid down his life so other Marines would be safe, and he did it willingly. Every EOD tech that is over there does the same thing a hundred times a day, and they don't think about themselves. They think about the Marines . . . They think about the children that are over there.”
“Publishing the book online has had some huge consequences for my life, but not the ones that I would have expected.”
“We're beginning to recognize that it may not make sense to work at just one job for your entire life, retire for a few years and then die. Instead, we're more likely to take a cyclic approach to life—education, work, and leisure—and mix these up throughout our lifetimes. People are going back to school at 45, 65, even 80. People are having second, third, fourth, even fifth careers. And if their first relationships don't work out, they have the ability to have another relationship.”
“like I'm going to be in debt now for the rest of my life.”
“Actually, it is not ambition, it is more serving the people and dedicating your life to them.”
“He's used to this type of thing in his life. The guy hasn't done anything wrong.”
“When forests are professionally managed, they contribute greatly to our quality of life, which this property will do for decades.”
“New homes sales sprang back to life like a zombie in a cheap horror flick. And like that zombie, housing really is dead. Don't let all that twitching fool you.”
“We cannot restore life nor rewrite history, ... But we can make the ledger slightly less out of balance by devoting our time, energy and resources to the search for answers, the return of property and the payment of just claims.”
“It is rewarding when you can see the improved quality of life in these patients.”
“My biggest regret in life is saving David Frost from drowning”
“Playing jazz has been my whole life, from the age of ten. It's the only thing I know.”
“The reef acted as the foundation of Hawaiian life in ancient times, and continues to be an important part of our modern lifestyle. If the reef is to remain a viable ecosystem, it must be respected and nurtured. Today it needs our care.”
“Elation. Really, it's one of those dreams come true. You commit your life to this sport. Just to go to the Olympics is an incredible experience. To come away with a gold medal is even more exciting.”
“The man from the east end of Montreal who has worked all his life on the line should not be forced to accept handouts when the plant closes. He should be given the chance to retrain or to start his own business. He should be given every opportunity to continue to contribute to the community that he probably has spent his life helping to build.”
“One should always aspire for increment of strength, food and long life because each of them is dependent on other. ”
“[Affleck's rep, Ken Sunshine, however, isn't convinced his client would entertain such thoughts, particularly at this time of his life.] Right now, ... he's not running for anything except diapers.”
“I listened hard but could not see. Life tempo change out and inside me.”
“One of the proudest days of my life will be to see Mrs. [Vera] Clemente with her three children watching that No. 21 being retired,”
“One of our goals as a company is to make life easier for agents while at the same time protecting the company's assets, so we decided to find a vendor with programmers dedicated to the [Massachusetts] auto space.”
“That's not going to pay a mortgage, send your child to college and help someone get their life back on track.”
“Our whole life we've been volunteering. You can't count the things we've done on two hands. You just do it.”
“Giving your life is the ultimate sacrifice, and if they were able to do it for Jackie Robinson, they should be able to do it for Roberto Clemente.”
“The ultimate objective of human life is to be free from sin. ”
“They beat the life out of us, basically.”
“The seed to kill her husband was planted firmly from August 20 ... to remove the obstacle in her life that Robert Kissel had become, ... the man in her life.”
“Companies have to recognize that environmental compliance has become a way of life. Your ability to manage compliance issues has to become part of your supplier management.”
“The people are pro-life, particularly in South Dakota. The timing (of the law) couldn't be better and reflects the momentum the pro-life movement has today. It's not coming from the top, it's coming from the ground. It's a grass-roots movement that's propelling the legislatures, the governor, the president, and ultimately the Supreme Court to nullify the permissive abortion laws.”
“The movie is really a grandiose and full of life rock-and-rolling adventure story, but it's really about peace and love. It's also about a guy trying to find peace.”
“The study reinforces the message that the seeds of heart disease are sown in early life, which is why it is so important to try to alter the lifestyle of our children.”
“The timing couldn't be better and reflects the momentum the pro-life movement has today. It's a grass-roots movement that's propelling the legislatures, the governor, the president, and ultimately the Supreme Court to nullify the permissive abortion laws.”
“One should continue performing such virtuous deeds that increases strength, life-span and sharpens our power of vision. ”
“The staff is devastated. He was the kindest man, full of life, happy in his work. This is just heartbreaking.”
“The life cycle of toys gets shorter and shorter as kids' attention spans get shorter and shorter.”
“The life cycle of toys gets shorter and shorter as kids' attention spans get shorter and shorter.”
“We're jubilant. The pro-life movement just couldn't be more energized at this moment in history.”
“During my whole life I have not found a happier hunting ground than in the course of the Somme Battle. In the morning, as soon as I had got up, the first Englishmen arrived, and the last did not disappear until long after sunset. Boelcke once said that this was the El Dorado of the flying men.”
“Our life has been changed for ever. We'd always heard of the Big One but we'd always escape it. On Aug. 28, Katrina had New Orleans in its sights and nothing was going to change its destination.”
“I'm filming a movie with Robin Williams called 'R.V.,' and I'm having the time of my life,”
“The pro-life community and Christians believe that this is a landmark case, because what's happening is Planned Parenthood and the ACLU want to silence the pro-life message,”
“May our mind be inclined towards virtuous deeds, acquiring strength and long-life! May we continue to see the glorious sight of Rising Sun for eternity!”
“He thinks I've destroyed his life by cheating on him and now he's trying to destroy mine, ... I don't want him to know where I'm moving to, because he sold his house and I think he might pay someone to get me. He's a lot more treacherous than you think.”
“Early in his life I thought there may be a collection of stories about the dog but I didn't realize what it would be until he died . Despite his antics, he brought great joy into our lives.”
“It looked like the Jaws of Life had pulled it open.”
“She is a dancer; that was her second life. She danced two or three nights a week for hours.”
“That took a little bit of life out of us.”
“When most people are asked who has been influential in their life, many will name a teacher.”
“So many teachers affect your life and this is a way to pump up our school district employees and make them feel better ....”
“I will continue to talk about it for the rest of my life,”
“I believe this is the biggest recognition I'm going to get for the rest of my life in my country. Coming from a country with so many good players and so many coaches and being chosen to do this, nothing will match this.”
“The Western media wonder why I am leading a reclusive life,”
“It's probably the only one [Burns] dropped in his entire life. But we bring it, too. When people apply pressure, it gets everybody out of their comfort zone. That's what they do, and that's what we like to think we do. That's why we're a great test for one another.”
“That may or may not reflect what might happen in a real-life system, where you or I might get low doses [that accumulate] over months, years or decades. Time won't allow us to do those studies, of course.”
“He's made my life easier. He's so strong for a point guard that he forces other teams to double him and the kick out is to me for a three. He gets me a lot of easy baskets.”
“Getting a shutout here is going to be a memory for the rest of my life.”
“Had it my whole life. You have to expect it. I haven't really ever done much to be honest with you. Playing in net on a good team.”
“Every time you turn around, Disney is in your life, and the guy who is behind all that, I think, is somebody who should be looked at.”
“In Raytheon IDS, our commitment includes focusing on customer needs throughout the product life cycle. This means helping to extend the life of our systems with product upgrades and reducing life cycle costs with whole life services and support.”
“If you have goals in life you're going to reach them. If you don't reach them at least you fight to try to get there.”
“Everybody is telling me I saved her life, so I guess I did.”
“It is the good life that democracy brings that counts, not democracy per se.”
“I hit probably the best shot of my life out of the fairway bunker. As soon as I hit it I knew it was going to be good. Then I knew I needed to make it to have any chance. I was shaking like a leaf on that last putt. Luckily I got it done.”
“I think this is the most indecent thing I have seen in my public life that spans 25 years.”
“WHO tries to encourage people to try and lead a healthy life. There is safe sex, one can drink alcohol in a reasonable way and one can attempt eating in a balanced fashion. But with tobacco, there is no middle ground, it is black and white and it kills half of those consuming it.”
“You have to find something in your life that makes a difference.”
“My background was art school, documentary director and surfer with a keen interest in thrilling acts of life threatening stupidity.”
“ATI's new Avivo will play a key role in enabling life-like visual fidelity all the way from content creation to consumption, ... We are diligently working alongside ATI to help our customers offer powerful PCs for a truly rich photo and video experience.”
“It's been a great life until the last three years. These energy prices are a bitter pill.”
“The general theme of my art has evolved from a strong romantic sense that art is life and life is art, and that art goes far beyond its physical representation and, through its essence, arouses the senses to knowledge.”
“In the biopic scripts, we did address heroin, which was part of her life. To tell you the honest truth, those scripts didn't work.”
“I've farmed all my life and had livestock killed by coyotes and mountain lions, so I can see both sides of it. It's easy for you and me to say that the guy should give up some grapes to the bears, but he's the one making the mortgage payment.”
“A lot of times in life, you wonder why things happen to you.”
“I think we're lucky because there are very few people in life who get to do what we're doing.”
“Life As We Do Not Know It: The NASA Search for (and Synthesis of) Alien Life”
“The park, the woods, represents life. You go down to the memorial and come back up, it represents catharsis. It represents coming from death to life.”
“These people have a very poor quality of life, ... We fail them as reconstructive surgeons.”
“That word refers also to the larger issue of seeking and, we hope, finding meaning and purpose in one's life. People gravitate toward a particular religion because they are searching for meaning. Organized religion can fill some, but not all the spiritual needs of every person. The series addresses the spirituality needs in a broad perspective not possible confined by the boundaries of a specific denomination.”
“The way she handles her life outside of basketball, the way she keeps herself in shape and has a clean lifestyle, she's very much a role model to these young ladies. She's always got a bubbly personality. She's always upbeat. She's a tough person in and around the basket. She's always competing. I'm just glad that she's there with us.”
“I've been a Dolphin for 17 years, and I'll be a Dolphin for the rest of my life. That will never change.”
“He wants to be able to learn. He wants to be able to make a difference in someone's life.”
“That's just a day in the life for us. (Kids) don't know any other lifestyle. That's how they have to do it if they play here. Our average trip this year will be 31Ú2 hours -- one way.”
“We want to live a simple life, ... I want to emphasize I'm not an environmentalist who goes to church. I want my principal identity as a Christian to be someone who follows Jesus. I want to work for peace and justice, care for God's environment, be a good neighbor and friend and live the right life.”
“In life, you have to take the good with the bad. This is a very good night, so with me, I have to watch out for that reciprocating karma coming back.”
“I've never wanted to leave. I'm here for the rest of my life, and hopefully after that as well”
“No agreement is visible. No agreement is possible. No future is there in the life of the two peoples as long as Sharon is in office.”
“When you live in a house like this, your life changes, your life gets better.”
“There, life grabs our young man and then it becomes a struggle between (his) heart and his commitment to ideology.”
“If a member of your family misbehaves and embarrasses you, you cannot do anything about it. I wish life were an editing room where one could sit and edit all those embarrassing moments away.”
“Naturally occurring diseases can be much more devastating than a weapon. The life sciences are moving so quickly and there are so many new dramatic breakthroughs. Yet some of those breakthroughs, if you tweak them just slightly, become really potentially devastating agents for harm.”
“That was the best fastball I've ever thrown in my life. He swung and missed. I remember walking off the field, with everybody in Yankee Stadium standing up, and I said to myself there was no way I could let the game get away from me.”
“It's like a new life. New country, and in the family we have a new member. I keep telling people I feel like I'm 22 again.”
“We have lost a very important religious figure who dedicated his life to peace and justice for all.”
“We will miss him as a distinguished religious figure, who devoted his life to defending the values of peace, freedom and equality. He defended the rights of Palestinians, their freedom and independence.”
“This is just a very strong testimony to the life Johnny lead,”
“It's hard to say where we went wrong. We didn't handle the match. But it's only a game, life goes on. The Czechs played very well, and they demonstrated [the skill] we have shown at the tournament so far.”
“My greatest achievement so far is that I've been able to continue with my normal life. I love what I do, but more so, I'm glad to have people who care about me close by.”
“This is the greatest feeling of my life. This is even better than last year, because last year we already had at least a share of the title. This was to win it outright.”
“I just plan my whole life thinking about tennis. I don't want to have any regrets. As long as I feel that I can resist the guys, I'm happy to be there.”
“We have the best quality of life in Florida. So business owners, if given the choice, this is where they want to live and do business.”
“I have the luxury of being a little boy, ... To me, the most important thing in life is to be a human being. Second is acting.”
“Life is really easy in Rio. Everybody works until four and then goes to the beach.”
“The Big West Tournament is basically a new season. Teams have new life, and whichever team plays the best deserves to win. That's college basketball. That's the beauty of it.”
“This is a special time for young men, a special moment in life. It's very compelling.”
“Fashion and computers are going to have a very long and healthy life together. We're just learning what these marriage proposals are and I think there's all kinds of exciting possibilities.”
“Acceptance of the power of God in one's life lays the groundwork for personal commitment to both science and Christianity, which so often have been in conflict.”
“I understand it, he wants to play, he's looking at a life experience. If that's something James wants to do, I have that much respect for it and understand it.”
“I don't want to look back on my life and think I did one thing for too long. I've been doing this for exactly half my life.”
“It's really hard. It's a different culture, different people. The style of life changed completely.”
“It's change. It's something we will always have to deal with in life.”
“This would change his life.”
“Once inextricably tied to the entertainment world, now luminaries are found in all walks of life.”
“Many of their differences can be explained by the fact that the Internet hasn't diffused into everyday life in rural areas at quite the same clip as it has in others locales.”
“He was very clear on his positions. He is opposed to late-term abortions except when the life and health of the mother is at risk.”
“If somebody told me this is what I'd be doing with my life, I'd have laughed. I always thought he'd be a science teacher or a professional fisherman.”
“Life is a metaphor for baseball.”
“Every call, you have somebody's life in your hands. If I had an emergency, I would want her to be on the other end of the line. I will swear to that.”
“Seeger needs to give the closing of his life. I would have tried it differently. I would have made marketing the center issue of the case, and Chris chose to make causation the center issue. By closing arguments, our case was over. This case can go either way.”
“We are very saddened by any new loss of life, particularly associated with the delivery of humanitarian aid.”
“I make sure I come here every year because this is what life is all about. It's the real people, the unsung heroes who I really admire.”
“School is really a big part of my life. I really believe in the things we do.”
“In Boys to Men, you don't graduate. It's more of a crossover, or a phase. In life you go through phases, and one of them is growing to be a man.”
“He put his life in God's hands, and now he's safe.”
“We are taxing the poor on the necessities of life and that is something most states avoid. But we are doing it with pride.”
“It's a show about real-life young people competing in a musical competition, complete with comedy.”
“I'm just holding up mirrors at interesting places, I'm trying to capture life at strange angles.”
“You're ruining my life! I'm spending 90 percent of my time at the pool.”
“Parking, traffic, those are issues tied to urban life. It's not necessarily a bad thing, ... I don't know how a merchant can think there's too much traffic.”
“It scared the hell out of me. What am I going to do for the rest of my life? We were born in an era of what you did was who you were.”
“There's nothing theoretical about what we do; it's life-and-death stuff. It's reality - and that's the policy side of it, ... On the political side of it, not every Democratic member can chair it, because it's tough. I come from a very secure seat in San Francisco, so people from the Central Valley can write that it's the 'Criminal Protection Committee,' and it doesn't bother me.”
“Probably the best man, and not just one of the best coaches , I've ever met in my life. The things I've learned from him about football and about life, I'll cherish forever, really. Every minute you're around him, believe me, is a minute where you've benefited in some way.”
“He's been a tough kid all his life. He's got linebacker mentality. He threw a great game and dominated a good team on the road.”
“We're waiting to hear from him, see where he's at in his personal life, see if he has some type of resolution to his problems. We'll always welcome him with open arms, if and when he is ready to make a commitment.”
“We believe that the search for justice is the chief way of living a Christian life.”
“If you can figure out how to save your life at 120 miles an hour, trying to get funding for a new company really becomes easy.”
“Sometimes I'm more true when I'm up onstage than I'm able to be in my regular life. It's not as exciting to be at home, but I've got to learn how to make that work, and then I will be an ordinary woman.”
“We're pretty regular guys. Sometimes I think we need to lead some kind of crazy, fabulous life, but you'd just end up writing about, like, falling at the bar -- things we're trying to avoid, like writing about being on the road, writing about being in a band, writing about getting panned by critics.”
“Corporal works of mercy are no less important to the life of the Church than its sacramental ministry. Forbidding the Church to perform them is a serious blow to its religious liberty. Why would the government do that?”
“The Life and Death of Peter Sellers.”
“It won't make for a quiet life but it will make for an interesting paper vastly more significant because it is doing something only a daily paper can do.”
“My life is stressful, but I know who is in control. Without a strong faith in God, I couldn't make it through this. I don't see how anybody could.”
“Obviously, everybody's familiar with Chris' addictions throughout his life. What I feel good about, watching this movie, is that he was completely clean and sober and really worked hard on it.”
“Must I tell the story of my life again?”
“I don't regret anything I ever do or say. I don't like to live my life being censored. I like to say what I feel, and I think people respect that because you're honest.”
“It's much easier now to run your life the way you want to.”
“I will never be back to Grand Rapids, ever in life... as soon as I can pay this ticket, I will never come back to Grand Rapids for nothing.”
“We are delighted for them. It really will be a life-changing experience. They really will be getting a warm welcome on the streets of London.”
“Yes, she was treated differently. She was treated better by my parents than she's been treated her whole life.”
“It was the worst thing I ever heard in my life.”
“I don't have anything to gain. It's not going to save my daughter's life. But it could save your daughter's life.”
“Absolutely, bar none, the best food you've ever tasted in your life. It has something for everyone, and even if you're not a barbecue fan, you can find something you can enjoy.”
“This is making us feel like superstars. This is one of the best moments of my life.”
“We would like to see a safe, a fair and human enforcement system that makes everybody's life easier, more realistic, but makes our country safer.”
“This is the best feeling I've ever had in my life. I'm really speechless. You just have to give a lot of credit to this team. We stuck together all season.”
“I don't look to jokes as a balanced look at life. But they can be an indicator. Jokes work on shared and collective perceptions among people.”
“Can you all just do me one favor? Don't take life for granted, because tomorrow isn't promised to any one of us.”
“Ricky is a unique individual, always loud and the life of the party. He doesn't get enough credit. I think without Ricky, we don't make it as far as we have. He does it all.”
“A lot of people are trying to take advantage of the Christian marketplace now, but because of my personal life, it's not a new market for me.”
“My dorm is way too chaotic to work in. It would make my life a lot easier if Snell would stay open for a few more hours. Boston University actually accepted me last year. I'm sure that if I'd gone there the library hours would be a better fit for me. It would just be a lot easier to get my work done.”
“He's at home now, I think, and he's planning the rest of his life.”
“Everyone's got an intuition about the risk of everyday life. We thought, 'Wouldn't it be great if we could quantify it?' And once you begin to do that, you realize that everyday life is not benign.”
“Perhaps we will learn how small differences in the code of life enabled us - but not chimpanzees - to cook soufflés, create symphonies, translate our own voyages into maps, build ever more complicated artifacts, and write plays that reflect the social intricacies of our lives.”
“They're going to be talking about life since the verdict, ... It's kind of appropriate to review that.”
“I have a good time with him no matter what we do. It's the highest point in my life spending time with Matt, and that's followed right along by (my wife) Arlene.”
“This is the time of my life. I really never dreamed that it would be. But I'm sure that in a couple of years down the road, I'll be able to look back at 2006 and say that was the good old days.”
“This is the time of my life. I really never dreamed that it would be.”
“These are companies that dominate our day-to-day life, from retailing and air travel to banking, finance, and insurance.”
“We think that the answer is love and care at the end of life and not eliminating patients. This turns (care) 180 degrees and asks doctors to be complicit in something we find morally offensive.”
“We would talk on the phone at night. We talked about everything, but our family life was really important. She was such a pleasant person. She was an outstanding woman.”
“It was the best year of my life professionally and personally.”
“They really fall in love. She has a big impact on his life and he will later become the Bond that we all know because of that one relationship.”
“Just to think of them doing 'A Day in the Life,' with that full orchestra revving up at the end? That's a pretty thrilling idea.”
“I've been trying to use baseball as a vehicle to teach life skills. We're always asking for donations for ourselves, and for people to help us, so in turn I try to get our kids to give back to the community.”
“With a 20-pound (per acre) seeding rate, that's around $60 an acre for the technology for the life of the stand.”
“I've seen enough lineup cards in my life to know that if you're not on it, you're not playing, ... I walked over there probably a little quicker than I usually do to check out the lineup card.”
“I'll make no bones about it, this is the greatest individual athletic achievement that has ever happened in my life. Any quarterback needs great players around him to win. I have been very blessed throughout my career.”
“That's about when he figured he'd better get a job that would let him 'life out,'”
“This lets them know there is life after their injury and they just have to adapt.”
“We talked about the fact that yes, she was going to spend a great deal of her life taking care of Chris. But they were very smart about that, and continued on with their careers.”
“A great American city is fighting for its life.”
“I will probably not forget this game for the rest of my life. That game is my fault. I take that on my shoulders.”
“I'll remember this game for the rest of my life. I lost my concentration, and you can't do that.”
“What really makes you healthy in life is your mental attitude. If it affects you in a positive way, it's worth it.”
“I'm sort of in for a penny, in for a pound with Star Trek, It's my life at this point. To deny it would just be foolish.”
“It's the greatest individual athletic achievement that's ever happened in my life. To be considered one of those players that made an impact or somehow, someway helped define the game itself is a very humbling experience.”
“Taking pictures is savoring life intensely, ever hundredth of a second.”
“I've always thought that we, as human beings, would be naive and arrogant to pretend that we're the only life form in the galaxy.”
“12 of the best years of my life. It will never be forgotten.”
“A life signature is the tracing of the talents we are given and how we express them in our lives.”
“I've seen it in politics all of my life.”
“I'd like them to legalize us, so my family can have a better life. If God wants (immigration officials) to get us, that's OK. This is more important than our fear.”
“I try in sessions to let listeners into the musician's life: Where does this song come from and what makes this artist tick. So then when they listen to that artist again later, it's a more personal experience. There's a relationship there.”
“A lot of things in life are expensive, but books are a good thing to have. There is still no replacement for a good old-fashioned book when you are trying to learn.”
“It's the greatest individual athletic achievement that has happened in my life. To be considered one of those players who made an impact to define the game itself, it's a humbling honor.”
“I had only two jobs my entire life Taco Bell for six months and Kroger's Food store for one day!”
“Any life in transition, in a positive transition, that seems to be when people make the Internet their own.”
“There's a chance she'll have to be on anti-rejection medicine for the rest of her life. The doctors said the next six months are the most critical.”
“She's played against bigger kids all her life, 5-8 and 5-9 players. She's so physically strong and has such great instincts that 5-3 doesn't matter. Rae Lin has no fear, knows how to play the game and use her body.”
“When a young person grows up with a father not in his life because the father chose not be involved, that can be debilitating,”
“I'm really thrilled that I met someone that I want to spend the rest of my life with.”
“She had a full, full life of her own.”
“You're over there in the corner either thinking about the dead dog or whatever, you're bringing up your personal life and you need the space, and then somebody throws you a joke. Especially if it's an emotional scene, you don't want the joke.”
“There are two things I will never do in my life. I will never climb Mount Everest, and I will never work with Val Kilmer again. There isn't enough money in the world.”
“They're going to look out the window and enjoy life a little bit, ... We really appreciated the first day off.”
“You never know what changes you might make in someone's life.”
“Many (inmates) come from very, very dysfunctional homes. We think we can provide some life skills that they can master in prison and then they can use them on the outside. They don't learn that stuff so they don't have anything to fall back on.”
“[Religious fanaticism is just one of many big themes in Mary Stuart that continues to have relevance in contemporary life.] In Elizabeth's time, the fanaticism of Catholics was viewed in much the same way we now view the fanaticism of Muslims, ... It was equally misunderstood and equally feared.”
“That's how life is in peasant families. What luck that three of us survived!”
“I would like to help raise the quality of life in the ward and throughout the city.”
“They did nothing to prevent this massive loss of life. None of this should be allowed to be swept under the carpet.”
“The Natural world, in fact, enters us and becomes ,well, becomes really a kind of life, it has a pilgrimage through us.”
“These guys have pushed their egos aside to be here, they've put their life on hold to play for their country. I think that says something about them all.”
“They've meant different things [to me], ... The Stones stuff was kind of the soundtrack to my life. I know that sounds kind of hokey, and some people say that about some of the stupidest bands, but it more or less happened.”
“I think things are changing, though. I think in sports and in daily life, more people don't have the moral compass they used to have. I see that in my sport. I see more cheating.”
“I've been a fan my whole life, ... When I started out, the bad boys liked the Stones and the good people liked the Beatles. I appreciate the Beatles now, but back then I didn't. I thought they were too poppy.”
“We want him to live the rest of his life in happiness and we want to be a part of his life as we possibly can. We love him very much.”
“We just had to hang on for dear life today. It's not fun to see your boys go down. I also have to give a lot of credit to Arkansas. I tried to tell everyone how fast they were.”
“It was a big opportunity for me but now that it's gone I'm going back to normal life and start racing again. I'm still in a recovery (from injury) season and I'm getting better and better. I guess I'll gear up for U.S. Nationals as my next big race.”
“I think we would ignore them as a threat at our peril. It isn't going to make life any easier.”
“Life is becoming more and more complex,”
“He was larger than life, not a Gray Davis or Pete Wilson, who were technicians. He said, 'I am Arnold. I can move mountains.' But then he didn't deliver?. He delivered midgets when he promised giants.”
“I've never won an MVP award before. I'll remember this day for the rest of my life.”
“Earlier in my life, I would've tried to bury my emotions. Now I wake up at 5 or 5:30 in the morning and find myself weeping for my city.”
“Mentally I am so fresh and hungry. I am the heaviest I have been in my entire life, and I am really fired up. But it would be cheeky to expect anything more than a fifth place.”
“When it comes down to it, at the end of the day, I need more out of my life and I need to push myself harder. And if at the end of the day I don't have it, then I don't have it, but at least I'm going to put myself out there. If I fail, I'm going to fail terrifically.”
“You'd think you were taking good swings off him, but his ball had a little extra life on it, and you'd foul it off. He steps up on the big stage, and he did it today.”
“The feedback was that it's not the direction in life they're heading right now. They've essentially retired from that level.”
“Movies and kids, they are just part of your life. I don't even want to say it's hard, because it really isn't.”
“As guarded, not necessarily secretive, but as private about his personal life as he used to be, for him to suddenly propose in front of reporters on the Eiffel Tower and jump up and down like the monkey in Curious George on Oprah Winfrey's couch, there truly is some problem there.”
“As guarded, not necessarily secretive, but as private about his personal life as he used to be, for him to suddenly propose in front of reporters on the Eiffel Tower and jump up and down like the monkey in 'Curious George' on Oprah Winfrey's couch, there truly is some problem there.”
“We believe this young man has committed a serious crime deserving of punishment, but not the loss of his life.”
“As guarded, not necessarily secretive, but as private about his personal life as he used to be, for him to suddenly propose in front of reporters on the Eiffel Tower and jump up and down like the monkey in 'Curious George' on Oprah Winfrey 's couch, there truly is some problem there.”
“The hardest thing I've ever done in my life was when I had to make this decision to end someone's life.”
“There's no pressure on me. Victory will change my life. To get to the top, I have to fight fighters like him.”
“There is life beyond high school.”
“When you're really hands-on, it's going to give you a real-life experience on how it's going to go.”
“That was the scariest ... thing I've ever done in my life. I'm lucky I'm alive.”
“The press got us going and gave us life.”
“There was no sign of life from the devastation left by Katrina.”
“For veterinarians, it would make life a lot easier to have a safe, efficacious vaccine that you could use to sterilize dogs. There is no doubt about it. I would welcome it.”
“I feel like I'm kind of lucky. I found a situation here where I could continue my life in a relatively normal way, ... Working and thinking about research helps me stay sane. It gives me an outlet so I don't have to think about New Orleans all the time.”
“When we went to Minnesota, I had 15 people I've never met before in my life come up to me and ask, 'So, this is Missy, eh?'”
“In Sir Sean, AFI has found a perfect honoree for its Life Achievement Award. A celebration of his outstanding work guarantees a tribute as entertaining as it is deserved.”
“I have always been pro-life. I characterize myself that way and I'm not running away from it or avoiding it.”
“We can consciously end our life almost anytime we choose.”
“I truly think this is one of those places that, for the rest of my life, I'll say 'I played Carnegie Hall.' You know ... that's it.”
“me reflect on my whole life.”
“Science has proven that embryonic stem cell research has not delivered one successful cure and deliberately kills human life in the process. Adult stem cell science, however, has thousands of cures and is completely ethical.”
“It's my turn now, and the wait was worth it, ... I'm having the time of my life right now.”
“As soon as the groupie finds out that you make errors in everyday life like everybody else does and that you are human, they turn on you and hate you.”
“We're seeing, after many years of education and work, that people are beginning to understand the pro-life movement. The culture is shifting to a more pro-life perspective.”
“It's absolutely wonderful, ... It's one of the good days in my life.”
“Remember that what pulls the strings is the force hidden within; there lies the power to persuade, there the life - there, if one must speak out, the real man.”
“A man's life is what his thoughts make of it.”
“This was a citizen who had gone to render aid to somebody who needed help. It cost him his life. We owe him a responsibility to go back and make it safe so it doesn't happen to someone else.”
“When James disappeared I had to disappear too, and that was a very painful thing in my life. Painful because gay and lesbian people know that not being seen is very hard.”
“It's going to be rather nice, ... Center stage for once in my life.”
“Rep. Foxx is to be commended for supporting public policy that values human life, protects our religious liberties, and upholds the institutions of marriage and the family.”
“She made life rough sometimes. She messed with the wrong crowd.”
“The child that's at the hospital on life support is not related to any of the other children or the daycare provider.”
“He and I have a rich life together. I want to thank all of those people who haven't been seen yet for helping me through these tough times.”
“In Sir Sean, AFI has found a perfect honoree for its Life Achievement Award, ... A celebration of his outstanding work guarantees a tribute as entertaining as it is deserved.”
“It is one of the best things that ever happened as far as an event in my life.”
“Disasters -- flooding, hurricanes, earthquakes, and so on -- have a schizophrenic political life, ... Before, or between, events you don't have people marching on city hall or state capitol steps saying, 'Save us from the hurricane, earthquake etc.'”
“I'm remarried, I do what makes me happy, and I live an exciting life.”
“Having literally dedicated the whole of his adult life to representing the people of Clarendon and Williamsburg, Alex was truly a servant of the people. That commitment to the ideals he lived by and the people he served will be sorely missed.”
“There are times, I think, in political life that you have opportunities to do things, and I think that we are at such a time right now.”
“I said, 'Leaving Indianapolis,' ... Coming here has given me a fresh outlook on my life. My wife and kids can be around her parents. I have a new team - and a new chance to do something special. It's really motivating me to press on.”
“They're concerned about issues like holiness of life; they're concerned that sin is taken seriously. They're concerned about the excesses of the charismatic movement. They don't believe in women pastors.”
“It was scary. Your whole life stops right there.”
“I think it's kind of a tough deal for a guy who's given his whole life to Montana State, not only the university but the basketball program.”
“It used to be that as long as you worked hard and lived an honest life, you can have a family and a house. It doesn't seem like that would make a difference now.”
“We were very happy going to Hos and never thought twice about it, ... People make decisions in life, and I don't look back, so (making Hostetler the backup) wasn't something that was unexpected to me or the team. He's an excellent recruit and he's going to do a great job.”
“We have complicated our life a little with that, but I think it's going to result in much better projects.”
“It's one thing to read about the immortality of the soul, but it's another to see your own life flash before your eyes.”
“In your thirties, your life is so completely different, it's almost impossible to reconcile who you are with who you were as a teenager, ... Even if I wanted to represent that time in my life,I couldn't. It's amazing how much changes. You're more interested in stability, in being tied to normal problems everybody else has, not the chaos that in your younger life you fall into.”
“My understanding of Jill Carroll's reporting is that she has been looking at the life created for the average people in Iraq since the war began.”
“It will be a backstage pass come to life. Reggie could be the kind of performer that comes along once in a generation.”
“How much of our literature, our political life, our friendships and love affairs, depend on being able to talk peacefully in a bar!”
“The market seems to have fresh life, fresh enthusiasm. Psychology is what this market is all about and when we feel good, we buy.”
“My whole life is about sound. It's what makes me tick as a human being.”
“Nor has he spent his life badly who has passed it in privacy.”
“That created a whole landslide of Cobb-hating and piling on. That was the last 10 months of Cobb's life. I think if any of us were portrayed in the last 10 months of life, when we were ravaged by disease, we would not come across very well.”
“O philosophy, you leader of life.”
“To be able to look back upon one's past life with satisfaction is to live twice.”
“You give me nothing during your life, but you promise to provide for me at your death. If you are not a fool, you know what I wish for!”
“I'm pleased they're going to consolidate any investigation in Washington. It makes life a lot easier. I wish Congress would follow the same lead.”
“I love my older brother. He paved my life for me. He put my whole family on his back in college. But there's ups and downs with that. When things are going good, he's a great person to have as your brother. When bad things happen, everybody knows about it.”
“What's new here is not the use of umbilical cord blood in the treatment of a life-threatening disease, but it's the way the transplant was engineered and the way the baby was conceived.”
“He did everything full throttle. He enjoyed life. He wasn't stupid. He knew he had so much to live for.”
“I am pro-choice with limitations, pro-life with exceptions”
“These initiatives are designed to improve the quality of life of the residents and give them the confidence to go about their lawful business without fear of being shot at or otherwise being intimidated by armed criminals.”
“He taught me how to carry myself. He taught me how to do the little things in life to be successful. He taught me what it meant to be a man.”
“These tips might seem obvious, ... but they might also save your life.”
“There should always be someone who will argue for life.”
“I have never loved my country more than I do today, ... All my life, America has smiled at me, and today I am smiling right back.”
“Only by his action can a man make (himself/his life) whole . . . . You are responsible for what you have done and the people whom you have influenced.”
“Life is like a box of chocolate going off... very disappointing.”
“We do not have to live in an America that accepts poverty as a fact of life or chooses to ignore it.”
“Every single resident of New Orleans, regardless of their wealth or status, will have terrible losses and life-altering experiences, ... suffered the most from Katrina because they always suffer the most.”
“I don't consider myself, you know, in real life one of those funny guys. My comedy comes through my work,”
“Jodie Foster may continue to outwardly ignore me for the rest of my life, but I have made her one of the most famous actresses in the world.”
“My children say, 'Hey Dad, you've worked hard all your life. This is a good time for you to relax and enjoy yourself. Who knows? Maybe one day they'll retire there, too.”
“This new company is built on Panasonic's global strategy of providing solutions for a secure and comfortable life. We want to draw closer to our ultimate customer -- the homeowner -- to get to know their needs and to provide the contractors that serve them with the full diversity of our ideas and product lines -- from communications and entertainment systems, to televisions and our well-respected line of quiet, energy-efficient ventilation fans.”
“Steve never knew his parents. He makes so much noise in life, he cries so loud about everything, that I keep thinking he feels that if he just cries loud enough, his real parents will hear and know that they made a mistake giving him up.”
“We don't know. Mia didn't play soccer. She was a cheerleader all her life. She cheered for (the University of Colorado).”
“He will have this restitution requirement for the rest of his life. At this point I'm not overly optimistic we're ever going to get anything out of the bankruptcy. I am optimistic we're going to get something out of the restitution.”
“I don't want to endanger anyone, ... Now I have a life sentence of MRSA.”
“It's particularly troublesome when these claims provide false hope to patients with serious or life-threatening conditions.”
“It has just become part of my life. I just love to compete, and I'm not quite ready to give it up.”
“The loss of any innocent life, indeed any life, is tragic,”
“she is an Iraqi. She has dedicated her life to helping the people of Iraq.”
“I am not quite sure whether I am dreaming or remembering, whether I have lived my life or dreamed it. Just as dreams do, memory makes me profoundly aware of the unreality, the evanescence of the world, a fleeting image in the moving water.”
“Life makes writing poetry necessary to prove I really was paying attention.”
“If we can help people see that it's not just a race, that it's an opportunity to build life-long friendships, conquer challenges together and strengthen communities, then we think we will have succeeded.”
“The day that we handed out numerical rank was one of the worst days in my professional life. They were sobbing. Only one person is happy when you hand out rank: the person who is No. 1.”
“The loss of any innocent life, indeed any life, is tragic, ... What we must never do is deprive a soldier in harm's way the ability to protect himself and his fellow soldiers.”
“She's the same girl (after the operation) but now she's got her life back.”
“Is any man free except the one who can pass his life as he pleases?”
“For most people, geeks or not, modern life is just this incredibly complex problem amenable to no good obvious solution. But we can peck around the edges of it; we can make little shortcuts. And once you point out that everyone does that, once you coin the term, it's really easy to pile a whole lot of shared behaviors into one neat pile.”
“She is a powerful role model, a tremendous friend and a life coach to most of our members, young and old. She is a major influence on our teens exhibiting positive peer pressure.”
“(You can) use it for the rest of your life, basically. It's a game they could have won. Last year, we played a preliminary final and it was very tight and we had chances to win that if we'd handled that better. Eventually, you know as a coach of a club that you've got to experience these types of games and this type of pressure.”
“Rennie really is living proof of what MS is and how it can affect your life. By seeing her situation, I think it inspires people to get up and do something.”
“The Russian offer is alive and will have long life.”
“The Last Coach: A Life of Paul 'Bear' Bryant”
“I've been dancing all my life. I even won a contest at the Apollo Theatre in 1968.”
“My life has been no downs, just ups knock on wood. So far, it's been all right.”
“Performing is the most important single action in my life. It is a unique experience of hard work-elation and disappointment. Every move is an experiment in building up a successful repertoire.”
“I just thought if I could get it, I could get a break at least once in my life, ... That was kind of a break, when I got that money.”
“She was a beautiful, beautiful person whom I will cherish for the rest of my life.”
“I get on with my life. I don't know the politics of Scottish football. I know I played up here for Celtic, but you tell me the politics of football. Would Rangers ever consider me? Why answer the question unless it is asked, and I don't know if it will ever be asked.”
“Hartford Quantum II is our latest product within a new and innovative generation of life insurance policies that The Hartford has introduced to the market. Consumers today first and foremost want guaranteed death benefit protection. But they also understand the need for tax-advantaged asset accumulation. Our new hybrid policy provides the opportunity for both.”
“Life isn't about being fair. It is what it is. Both teams have played mid-week games, we've played at 9 in the morning, Thursdays, Fridays. I don't think the fairness issue plays into it.”
“Dean is going to have to live with this for the rest of his life but, right now, all that matters to him is playing football again. The problem was dragging him down and he's in a pretty low place at the moment. When the discomfort is taken away, we'll get that bright, sharp player back.”
“We wanted it to be local. We wanted it to be symbolic of our own difficulties in life.”
“Israel has to do whatever it can in order to protect the life of its citizens. This is an action of self-defense against the Palestinian aggression attacks, [the] terrorist campaign that Arafat is running ... Arafat is not interested in peace. He is not interested in negotiations. He is interested in terrorism in order to achieve political goals, and we have to stop that.”
“He is such an advocate for us in his everyday job and life. And he does that daily, continuously and with enthusiasm.”
“He's always tried to walk this balance between his life and his tennis, and here's someone that supports both. So there is this complete balance. It just funnels right down together.”
“There is no bad guy or good guy - it's not like life, but like a great tennis match where you want both sides to win.”
“It's where he held court. He was curious about life, and he was genuine.”
“As the nation's largest cheese industry gathering, we're pleased to honor lifelong achievement through our Life Member award .”
“I would say it's taking things we find in our everyday life and mixing these things to get structures. He's trying to get us to see those things in a different light. It's definitely different.”
“What we interpret here has a major impact on the American life we have today. We have the Constitution and Charles Pinckney, we have the Revolutionary War and Fort Moultrie and we have the Civil War here at Fort Sumter.”
“She asked me to tell you she considers this another chapter in a fun-filled life.”
“Every game is a must-win. This time of year, it's life or death right now.”
“It's a life-and-death issue for us.”
“I've hit a milestone in my life, turning 50, and if I waited any longer I'd have to write two books. I've had such a full life, I really want to share it.”
“Everyone likes pie. But people like pie a la mode even better. In the pie of life, arts is the ice cream.”
“When you set up to play, you made sure to give the performance of your life, ... Our first two records were done in [a total of] six weeks.”
“It is on the upswing of its life cycle.”
“Becoming a British citizen is a milestone event in an individual's life,”
“Mike Ditka changed my life, just like Lou Holtz change my life, just like Bill Reed changed my life. He brought a commitment that I have heretofore never seen.”
“It is on the upswing of its life cycle.”
“I'd rather have someone who spent his adult life in New York.”
“The evidence suggests that they were quite popular and were played by many Americans from all walks of life. The only real dissenting views during this time were from Quakers who opposed lotteries.”
“His knowledge of the background permeates his work and we know he's not like that (in real life). We know he's a fine person and a very warm person and very easy to work with.”
“The house has so much life.”
“It was the most devastating thing that's ever happened in my life. I tell people, 'You're not always responsible for what happens to you, but you are responsible for how you respond.”
“I wanted to live as well-rounded a life as I could. I wanted my own independence.”
“In the midst of life we are in debt.”
“He's larger than life to me,”
“This all comes down to what we know about life on Earth.”
“Life has changed post-September 11, ... It's something we'll have to get used to, but as much as possible, as much as humanly possible, people should resume normal activities.”
“The Olympics has been a life-long dream. I know that I have a ton of work ahead of me, but it is work I have been waiting my entire life to do.”
“He really was a fun-loving guy. He had a lot of passions and he really enjoyed life. He was approachable, never pass judgment on anybody, and he had the ability to love all people.”
“You're really, seriously taking your life into your own hands when you try and cross here in the evenings.”
“Math and science are the life blood of the future.”
“Tom left his life as we know it with a clear sense that after 9/11, he felt like he needed to do something very concrete to help create peace in the world.”
“Do for this life as if you live forever, do for the afterlife as if you die tomorrow”
“This campaign has been the longest job interview of my life, ... But now the people of Virginia have spoken. They have said they want a new approach for our commonwealth, and tonight I'm here to tell you I'm ready for the challenge.”
“The sale of these mature assets aligns with our strategy to increase the proportion of long-life and operated assets within our portfolio.”
“These weren't life-threatening conditions. These were just things the staff on site thought needed more attention.”
“I'm 50 years old and I've lived on the coast all my life, been through Hurricane Camille and others, too, but I've never seen anything like this. I didn't bring my wife and kids. I didn't want them to see this.”
“There's something about my Scandinavian heritage that knows that life shouldn't be easy -- life's got to be hard,”
“We're confident that our legislature will not approve the bill because we are strongly pro-life here. Doctors tell us that Plan B can cause a very early abortion, and we oppose that.”
“whatever facts we got wrong, we apologize for. I've expressed regret for the loss of life and the violence that put American troops in harm's way. I'm getting a lot of angry e-mail about that, and I understand it.”
“I haven't smiled so much in all my life.”
“I wouldn't say I'm obsessed. I do other things with my life, ... but monitoring the weather is definitely my passion, the way other people have golfing or gardening.”
“More and more foreigners are coming to China for transplants because medical standards here are improving. It is a life-saving chance because if they were in the US, they might have to wait three or four years for a new liver.”
“It's beyond my comprehension why it would be something that would get to that level. I can't for the life of me figure out why it's that complicated and why golf is so high on the radar screen.”
“They had no life paddles, no life vests, no personal protective equipment. They weren't familiar with the river, either.”
“If you think of the genome as the book of life, then the differences people have been looking at over the past 10 years have been typographical errors. But what we are looking at are redundancies in the text -- places where entire pages [genes] have been reprinted multiple times, or the page is missing.”
“It definitely affects your home life, but luckily my wife has been behind me 120 percent. She handled the whole thing like a trooper. Without her, my whole life would have crumbled.”
“He put his life on the line. How many men are willing to put their lives on the line for what they believe?”
“I've been doing this my whole life. It's all I've ever known. This is more of a comfort zone for me.”
“Those tips he gave me saved my baseball life,”
“It's not a little kid cartoon. It's deeper than that. It's about the transformation of life and humans.”
“Senior year was the best year of my life. I didn't take the serious route; however, of applying for jobs, and I thought applying for the show would be an awesome thing to do.”
“Increasing the Dialogue About Disability. Becoming disabled can happen to anyone at any time in life. It doesn't necessarily take a traumatic accident to become disabled. You can have cancer, chronic back pain or arthritis.”
“Life is short, guys, girls. Enjoy it. Do whatever it is you want to do. You want to go back to school, you want to stay in school, stay in school. You want to paint, music. You want to do porn, do porn. But don't tell your parents.”
“It works that way with a lot of things in life. Once you're held accountable for something, you put in a lot more and make a more conscious effort.”
“I had a book, which was stolen, the art of the life of the character, in which you present a whole life in three of four pages. I used that method.”
“When you have examined all the illusions of life and know that there isn't any reality, but you nevertheless go on, then you are a mature human being. You accept the idea that it is all mask and illusion and that people are in disguise. You see the crumbling of reality and you accept it.”
“One day I bumped into a group of coal miners from the Ozarks, wandering coal miners living a gypsy life... I started to speak with these coal miners, and became very interested in them.”
“The roads just break apart through the years. It was around 18 years ago Country Road was paved. The life span for a road is 10 years, so we are past due.”
“I've been coming here my whole life. It's just so, so sad. I can't even tell you what I'll miss most because it's just all these people.”
“He is already past the high point in his life and coming down on the other side. By next week he'll be nostalgia. He's 12 years old, and it's over for him.”
“I guess I was a bad boy, ... Yes, yes, I've had lots of women in my life.”
“the most empowering and spiritual experience of my life.”
“was the most empowering and spiritual experience of my life.”
“Her life becomes a testing ground for these objects. The objects then become testimonies, reports. They become an image of thinking about everyday decisions in a new way.”
“We were really shaken by the vandalism. It was such a disruption to everyday work life.”
“Band isn't something you do as a hobby, but merely a way of life. What you do in the band dictates the kind of person you are, or what type of person you will become.”
“There are no alternatives as far as health and life are concerned, because health and life are all that we have.”
“It's a time to make a fresh start and make changes in your life.”
“If your instinct is that someone is not good in your life, then you should follow that instinct.”
“for people who are (a) trying to find their purpose in life and (b) trying to find the deepest desire of their life.”
“We came out in the second half with no life and our defense broke down.”
“Those are life-and-death situations. What we're also concerned about is helping people who do not face that sort of thing. We need to help them become self-sufficient and produce food to feed themselves.”
“AMP remains our preferred life insurance pick. We expect the promise of further capital management initiatives and delivery of a strong 2005 result should continue to underpin confidence in growth prospects.”
“We can do it. The beauty of the moving line is that it's a real-life threat to every one of our partners, including our internal partners such as manufacturing. Our partners must be ready with parts, have strategic inventory on hand and ensure quality is impeccable so that there's never a delay on the line.”
“A lot are finding age works to their benefit. Not only do they have a body of life experience and skills to share, but in many developing countries, age is something regarded with reverence and respect.”
“Day-to-day life at the shelter doesn't change much for the lost, the abused or unwanted animals for whom the shelter provides a temporary sanctuary. The torment some of these animals have endured is shocking. Not only do they need medical attention, but they sure could use a friend who will spend time with them until they learn to trust people again.”
“I forgive him. He's a young kid, searching for love. Something's lacking in his life.”
“I participated in it because those needs were so great in my life. There was such a hole in my heart.”
“I have never taken a beating like that in my life. Waves and waves of people. If you beat one, there was another; you beat that one, there was another one. We knew it was coming.”
“They live out their life spans and die within three or four years. It's really the only humane way to handle it.”
“I think it's like your life. We all have these perfect lives in our heads. And we think that's what everything is. . . . I guess (the perfect purse is) your mood for that day.”
“You donate blood, you save a life and you get to see our stupid show,”
“I honestly believe the golf course, from the back tees, is too much at our time in life. I'm sure there will be some embarrassing moments, but we shall soldier on.”
“Documentaries really hold a lens up to life and capture real emotions. It's so rich for me to see a film and know that it's real. I love being invested in real situations and ... the things people go through in life.”
“We had to stay positive. It's the chance of our life. And knowing we had Kim in goal ... we knew she was going to stop most of the pucks and we just had to put some in.”
“I feel like I am right in the middle of something very special in my life. Not that managing a major league team wouldn't be special, because of course it would. But it would be something that I would begin and it would just start to be special. This is something I'm already in the middle of. And it's turning out to be what I want it to be.”
“I've been surfing so many years and it's a pretty strong part of my life so I'm not gonna give that up.”
“All my life, I've always played up. I came in here as the youngest person on the team but, what's funny is, now I'm leaving as the oldest person on the team.”
“This is a gift from heaven. I will be grateful to Pedro for the rest of my life.”
“I ask questions, and a large part of my life has been spent asking questions of Ken Livingstone.”
“Risk to civilian life has been undermined and ignored by both parties in the name of military necessity. They have to be watchful of the potential harm their negligence can do to the civilians.”
“We want to bring a new politics to Oakland, ... We don't need to settle for low-life politics in Oakland.”
“We don't need to settle for low-life politics in Oakland,”
“I really believe I've been preparing for this job all my life,”
“The scope of the course is really enormously broad, from the earliest conditions that can lead to life, to higher-level questions about finding intelligent life.”
“I want to try and get into those kinds of places. It's very important to make devices for life detection on Mars, for example. ... Any planet or moon with a solid surface will do.”
“This is something I've dreamed of all my life, ... It's just an amazing fact to be No. 1 in world. Topping it off, I am the first Russian. I'm so excited that I could achieve it.”
“I've seen the battle and I've seen the war / And the life out here is the life I've been sold”
“We get that money back through the life of the car. You are paying considerably less for gas.”
“We know that in all species that have been studied, calorie restriction increases the maximum life span.”
“This is life. If you want it better, work at it.”
“I just feel there are moments in one's life when you have to stand up and be counted, and for me, this is one of those moments. I believe democracy to be good for Hong Kong and in good time, when the time is ripe, it would also be good for my country.”
“It's a signal that the Internet and technology brands are becoming more interwoven into everyday life. It's moved from a specialty niche to the center of people's lives.”
“In America we believe in Life, Liberty - and the pursuit”
“Physical activity can get you going when you are immobilized. Get action in your life, and don't just talk about it. Get into the arena!”
“Glyn Berry lived his life well. We are tremendously proud of him, and we will miss him very much.”
“The ones who are here already are in a state of shock, and no ones knows the loss of life that's taken place in St. Bernard Parish alone.”
“They ought to go away for a long time, if not for life.”
“I want to live a full life. I ain't trying to get it all back in one day or one year, but I'm not going to give up the fight.”
“There was no prospect at all of the completely different life that I now see around me just today in Belfast”
“This has been the biggest and most successful year of my life.”
“I think the Andy Griffith stories all have a beautiful moral that we can apply to life, and I wish we had more TV programs like that now.”
“Clearly, this is not the best day in Mrs. Clinton's life. Well, she was misled ... she learned the nature of his testimony over the weekend.”
“Life is a distasteful party, but it is the only one I'm invited to.”
“I didn't want him to go. I'd never felt so safe and secure with anyone in my life.....I wanted to tell him everything that had ever happened in my few years. There were a million things I wanted to ask him.”
“We do a lot of work that's temporary in nature. This has no life after this week, unless we find another life for it.”
“It's what I've dedicated my life to prevent-the nonwriting of the great poem.”
“We'll have 13 life stations set up, which will include a bank, daycare, insurance company, grocery store, clothing store, real estate, car sales, household goods and a credit card company. Each station will have professional people in each one to show the student's how things are really done in real life.”
“The digital revolution is marching on and entering every aspect of life.”
“It's like everything in life: if they're physically attractive, they have an advantage.”
“In my experience, music is an opportunity to relax when things are stressful in my life. It provides relief and it has always been a safe heaven and I know that I can always depend on that organization. It is something that helps me escape. It is also a healthy opportunity for people to keep themselves grounded. Singing conveys many emotions- motivation, excitement, inspiration and expression.”
“I had a large bulldog which saved my life three times, when they came slyly near the house in the night: he got hold of and marked them most severely.”
“We didn't get what we wanted. She should have gotten life, but we're satisfied with 40 years.”
“The goal of my life is to see and understand all of its wonderments.”
“Wherever I am, whatever I do, my only purpose in life is to see you – a restless desire like the need to see the light in the morning.”
“It was a week that was probably the best golfing week of my life, and I really enjoyed it. I think when you look at the top players there's one common denominator and that's how relaxed they are on the golf course, how relaxed they are off the golf course. There's no drama. There's no real massive emotional changes.”
“To us she was bigger than life. It didn't seem like cancer could beat her. I still come in every day expecting to see her.”
“I've been an athlete all my life, and I've never had an opportunity to do something like this. I get to play on the first-ever women's pro football team in Albuquerque. That's something.”
“I think Courtney Owens, for never playing a tennis match a day in her life other than what she's played in practice, has done really well.”
“People making films today are willing to use more current material because the film's life is so much shorter.”
“sort of to reintroduce life into the country, ... So that's the premise of it. It's got a good idea in it. I like that.”
“Diversity is one of the pluses of the program. You have an opportunity to share your home and your life with someone from a completely different background, and you learn that we're very much the same. All children have the same joys and the same fears.”
“There is life outside the high-tech.”
“I really want to be in private life, not public life, ... That was the reason for coming back here. That remains my view. These have been the best six years of my life.”
“Three weeks ago, I was sitting in my office having a perfectly fine life,”
“in life you get disappointed in people.”
“It was definitely one of the top 10 weather days of my life. Our cross-country team continues to improve each week, get more experience and give its all.”
“It's weird because horses kind of come and go in my life.”
“I just feel there are moments in one's life when you have to stand up and be counted.”
“This is where I'll live the rest of my life. I'd like to play here the rest of my career.”
“It was a bit of a challenge because we wanted to do something life-size. My biggest project up to that point was 16 feet.”
“I like the pro game, too, but I feel like I'm at the right place in my life. I'm doing what I want to do and that's more important.”
“From New Zealand to Japan, for many it is a life dream to hike the most famous trail in the world.”
“[David Beckham 's shelf life at Real Madrid faces further scrutiny this week. Real manager Mariano Garcia Remon admitted he dropped the England star from the lineup because of concerns over his lack of commitment in training.] I put out the players who I have seen training best during the week, ... Beckham and Roberto Carlos have not trained well and I considered that they should not play. I choose the side based on the work they do during the week and this was my ideal side.”
“The uncommitted life isn't worth living.”
“Retire? Not on your life. I have no plans to stop singing. What are you going to do when you love music? It's a terrible disease. You can't stop. Of course, I'd like to get off the road.”
“Life is much more successfully looked at from a single window, after all.”
“Often, people think, 'To get real balance, I'd have to radically change my life.' And that's not practical for many of us. But all you really need to do is make incremental change. Even making two or three relatively small changes, and freeing up a few extra hours a week, can make a huge difference.”
“This is going to make your life easier.”
“Instead of being larger than life, they are life-size. They're mortal people. Superhuman on their bikes, but mortal.”
“He loves it, that has been his life.”
“Wrestling is a massive part of my life. I use it as motivation for almost everything else I do.”
“I will win because everybody knows I have been truthful in my life and in public. I can't say that for some of those who want to run against me.”
“You see the hurt and pain in these kids' faces and you can just tell they've had a hard life. But when they get their Easter basket, their faces light up.”
“We have to think of society's portrayal of salesmen as not true to life but as that great American character making it against the odds, the hustler. It's not that we tend to think of salespeople as evil hucksters, but that the writers and directors see them as characters relying only on their wit, character and drive.”
“(There was) no sign of life.”
“I am not comfortable with the life-against-death generalization that Freud makes; it strikes me as too convenient.”
“Adversity in life teaches you.”
“The life that is written about in Uncle Tom's cabin was the Montgomery County component.”
“It's not an easy life. There are times I certainly get discouraged if I try to look too far into the future. But I've grown in my faith. And my daughters and son have a different faith than I ever had. My daughter knows more about Jesus and God because she has had to depend on him. And she's looking forward to heaven in a way that most of us don't have any clue. She says, 'I want to run and walk and climb trees and keep up with my brother and sister.”
“I knew Coo Coo basically all of my life. He was a good man, a good race car driver. One of the first memories I had of him was in 1967 when my daddy crashed in a modified race at Nashville and was injured really bad. Coo Coo pulled him out of the car.”
“I got involved in many illegal activities with my friends because my life had no direction then. I used drugs whenever I could and even went to jail once.”
“It is a truly great band and singing with them was one of the highlights of my life,”
“They were toast, pretty much done. Most of the harbors were at the end of their useful life.”
“It's awesome. Luke has come through adversity with his retina and pneumonia. He's worked for this his whole life.”
“In any situation, any aspect of your life, to be wanted feels good.”
“I see that. I'm just ready to move forward with my life and my career.”
“The Joy Diet: 10 Daily Practices for a Happier Life.”
“I've been stereotyped my whole life, ... ... It's actually not driven by Detroiters only. It's driven by the media. It's driven by the entire region. The 'us against them,' the 'black and white thing' is getting old.”
“This taps into a part of my personal life. I think the movie will resonate with a lot of people.”
“And you also can create the life you want. 'Follow your bliss' is not lightly said. There will be consequences and choices to make, but there's integrity in following what you know you should be doing for yourself.”
“This is really overkill. ... This is a choking off of information to the woman. This is a life and death situation.”
“They're all sanctity of life issues. Roe v. Wade was the foundation for so many of these other issues we're now facing.”
“Thanks for being so caring and generous. I am so blessed to be able to live a full life.”
“Things might suck — the state of the world, music is dark, life is dreary — but you have to be the one who soldiers on and tries to keep people happy and bring hope.”
“Boundaries will be broken, ... and you're going to see more women in leadership roles on television and in real life. We simply want to do our part to hurry history.”
“I don't take myself terribly seriously. It's why I can be incredibly honest about my life. My problems aren't so different from anybody else. I believe that everybody comes from pain and a certain amount of dysfunction”
“There are faculty members there I know I will keep in touch with for the rest of my life. They have taught me extremely valuable skills, and the best thing is I was able to utilize resources available to me for high school and my brief undergraduate career. There is a real push for high school ... to become more of a jumping board. With LCC I got my general education out of the way. Even if I flip majors, I am ahead of the game. And all of my credits are transferable to a four-year university.”
“After the fight I was insane. I was running for my life. The whole barbershop was following me.”
“Plans currently are to offer rent on a semester basis similar to the way residential life collects room charges.”
“This study is the first to provide evidence that early life exposures may result in effects manifesting themselves in adults. There's no other toxic exposure occurring to young children or mothers that causes such marked increase in mortality in young adults.”
“For many of the owners, these are later-in-life careers. It was a dream they had and now they have finally found a way to do it.”
“Allow (stress) to dominate your life and you get chaos. Put God first and somehow everything falls into place. Scripture promises it.”
“After many years of researching cutting costs, we determined it made sense to retrofit all our jets with life vests, so we don't have to be concerned whether a plane [assigned a particular flight] would be equipped to fly over water.”
“To me, it's helping to make life a little easier for someone who is in a very difficult situation.”
“That's the lesson in football and in life and everything you do. You can't give up.”
“There are people out there that started out with a disadvantage in life. They work hard and aspire to own a home. We want to help them with that dream. They need a hand. It's not a handout.”
“Vitamins have an extraordinarily long shelf life, so if you have a Sam's Club card or you find a way you can buy them in bulk, that's another option because they'll keep at least a year or so before they start losing anything.”
“You can't enjoy freedoms, you can't think about the quality of life of your citizens, you can't think of a future for your citizens or jobs or economic prosperity, life liberty and the pursuit of happiness, if you can't provide a level of security for the country itself.”
“He's been in the fire service most of his life. He's given all of his time to the community.”
“It was beautiful. It took a while to get in. That is one of the proud moments of my life, pulling that sucker in.”
“Pain has its own noble joy, when it starts a strong consciousness of life, from a stagnant one.”
“The experience of the last five months in Alderson, West Virginia, has been life altering and life affirming,”
“The one thing I wanted most in life was for my dad to see me coaching in the Final Four. He won't get to see me, but he'll have a seat from above.”
“I'm thrilled to be returning to my more familiar life.”
“I've always felt that life should be an adventure, that every day should be important ... There can be no doubt that the last three years have certainly been an adventure for me and for all of you. Though it was stressful -- very stressful -- I can say that I don't regret everything.”
“She's disappointed over feeling like her life was wasted. Everything she did is ignored over something ... trivial, that maybe didn't happen,”
“If something happens in my life that I want to write something about, then I do.”
“Our new home improvement series will inspire and inform, while mentoring and teaching valuable life skills, from repairing brickwork, laying flooring, painting rooms and installing a functional and lovely kitchen,”
“Our new home-improvement series will inspire and inform, while mentoring and teaching valuable life skills, from repairing brickwork, laying flooring, painting rooms and installing a functional and lovely kitchen,”
“Our new home-improvement series will inspire and inform, while mentoring and teaching valuable life skills, from repairing brickwork, laying flooring, painting rooms and installing a functional and lovely kitchen.”
“If my innocence will cost me my life, so be it.”
“Sen. Durbin works seven days a week, 24 hours a day. The Senate is really his life.”
“It just happened so fast. Just two months ago he was driving, living a normal life.”
“This is a tourism area. This is not an industrial area. This is a way of life. We are fighting for our way of life.”
“I actually like being employed, even though my circumstances in life may be different now.”
“There's more life on the obit page, just the high points of people who have lived incredible stories with their flesh and blood.”
“I'm not an expert. I just want people to stay healthy, keep in shape and live the best life they can.”
“We have two approaches in our research - the empirical model and the mechanistic model. The empirical model generates life prediction from accelerated degradation test data, while the mechanistic model relates life prediction to changes in battery materials. Our approach provides an independent measure of battery life so we don't have to rely on what battery manufacturers tell us.”
“If the maintenance is robust and properly followed, aircraft have a virtually infinite life.”
“He has become my 'link' to life.”
“Look at Mexico. We need to make that government better and end the corruption. If people have a better life in their country, they won't come over here.”
“And you are, every day, relentlessly terminating that life. And you are happy with that?”
“Life is funny. It all has come full circle.”
“My vision for Kentucky is a Commonwealth where there is so much economic opportunity, and our quality of life is so high, that people who are born here can stay here, and people who aren't fortunate enough to be born in Kentucky, can look forward to locating here.”
“Our fan base is considerably wide-ranged. It's different walks of life and that's what we encourage.”
“Unfortunately this earth is not. . . a fairy-land, but a struggle for life, perfectly natural and therefore extremely harsh.”
“I think Morris has a fantastic zest for life. He's hit upon something, and that is this central question: 'I'm full of life now, but what do I see in the future? A slow, steady disintegration into paralysis. Do I go out while I'm on top, or do I want to hang around, inch by inch, watching myself decay and have my family watch me decay?' He approaches this subject with tremendous humor, and he's never depressing -- he's always way ahead of everybody else, and full of life. He's a fantastic character.”
“KPMG is the clear comparable. Most of KPMG's life as a public company has been below its offering price.”
“ I never heard that before in my life. I loved it so much even though I was supposed to be mad at him. You see the look in my face, which is so delighted.”
“Life is easy on Richmond Road.”
“There is always another goal and it's about life achievement. And each one of them has a personal reason for doing it.”
“You can't be happy, taking away something I've worked on all my life to do and help my teammates and help my defense, ... It's just part of me, playing the puck. So, definitely, you can't be happy.”
“You can't be happy, taking away something I've worked on all my life to do and help my teammates and help my defense. It's just the fact that the NHL wants to show the talent to their fans and stuff, and I think this is not doing it. I think it goes the other way around. (It's) taking away a talent from guys. There's a lot of guys that can't play the puck, and that doesn't affect them.”
“He's been a streaky scorer all his life, and when it starts going in for him, it will go in more often than not. We've had many conversations. The mistake [people make about him] is that he doesn't care. That's the furthest thing from the truth.”
“This is the best birthday present that I have got in my life. I'm going to turn 40 and I will never forget this one.”
“The membership fee is your life-your commitment to democracy. No money.”
“The war defined a lot of things. Whatever he saw over there, he appreciated life here, and he appreciated what he had, and took comfort in that.”
“The [Villanovans for Life] statue is part of a bigger picture. I realize [abortion] is a politically sensitive topic, but if people don't want to look at [the statue], they won't have to.”
“It'll be a new lease on life for Anton. I hope he gets consistent with his game and has a real long career. I still believe Anton will develop into the player everybody thought he would.”
“She's just breathtaking. She's one of the most wonderful child actresses I've ever had in my life. She brings a warmth and a humanity to the part that has been missing for a long time.”
“There's no substitute for careful driving, but we think stability control is potentially life-saving technology that should be fitted as standard on all new cars.”
“I've loved sports my entire life and I enjoy teaching my kids the right way to play the game.”
“It does not affect your daily life very much if your neighbor marries a box turtle. But that does not mean it is right. Now you must raise your children up in a world where that union of man and box turtle is on the same legal footing as man and wife.”
“Just follow Buck O'Neil. This man is a leader, he's a genius. He understands people. He understands life. He will keep this going. He never gives up on situations he believes in. He's not discouraged about any of this. He believes he came along at the right time and is doing the right thing. He started the Negro League Museum in Kansas City. That was his goal, his mission, and many people resented that. But he stayed on course with his situations. All of us should learn from this man. He's an ambassador, he's a humanitarian. We should follow him and see what he has to say.”
“Life is but a dream but to many a nightmare. It's what comes after and in between lives that's reality.”
“Having good strategies in playing chess is often a good indication of being focused in life.”
“They'll take you through the day and the life of a soldier.”
“She loved life, loved people. If you treated her right, there wasn't a bad person in the world.”
“Frank is a very patriotic man. He joined the Sons of the American Revolution late in life. Not because of Francis Scott Key, but because of Frank's great-great-great grandfather, John Ross Key.”
“This is very encouraging for us. People from all walks of life and groups have emerged in to the streets to join our protest, which is going to make sure our movement will continue and force the government down.”
“Not only for what he did in baseball, but for the reason he lost his life. If I had something to do with it, I would have his number retired here and throughout the Dominican Republic. He's a national hero in the Dominican Republic.”
“Although most of these cases were reversible, very rare events of (high or low blood sugar) were life threatening and a few resulted in fatal outcomes.”
“You don't have the advantage of knowing absolutely everything that has happened in its life. But that's true with every animal.”
“It was between people who have different visions of how to lead a Christian life. Some people thought it was funny, and other people thought it was sacrilegious.”
“Having the opportunity to develop a device which leads to real quality-of-life improvement for people suffering from neurological disease or trauma is extraordinary.”
“I'm sorry he's made that decision but that's life and we move on.”
“She's been sick her whole life. It's basically never ending.”
“The game has been a big part of my life since I was young and its always going to be a part of my life. We still own this team and until we sell it, I'm going to be involved with it. Once we sell it, I'll keep my options open.”
“I've never seen anything like it in my life. This is a thousand times worse than I expected. It's just disgusting.”
“I put her right there with Loretta Lynn and people like that. She sings about her own life, which is what all great country artists have done, and I think she'll continue to do fine if she doesn't let anyone tamper with her music.”
“What is life? A frenzy. What is life? An illusion, a shadow, a fiction. And the greatest good is trivial; for all life is a dream and all dreams are dreams.”
“The borders are secure enough. People who enter illegally are just trying to make a better life -- give them a break!”
“If that was to occur, that is going to cause major structural damage and could cause loss of life. It's my responsibility to make sure everyone is safe.”
“It was an image that I'll never forget for the rest of my life. When we walked into the emergency room, we saw him laying lifeless with his eyes closed. He was hooked up to several different machines that were keeping him alive. Courtney and I both started screaming and crying. We didn't know or understand what was going on because he was feeling fine that morning.”
“NASA is interested in what conditions to look for on other planets that might lead to the arrival of life. What are the processes? Using earth as our most detailed study site, what are the necessary steps a planet needs to go through to enable complex animal life to arise? If oxygen is the metabolic pathway, then we need to know what conditions have to allow for that to happen. The geologic record provides us with a record of these steps that occurred on Earth.”
“One stumble is enough to deface the character of an honorable life.”
“My son's life was put on the line. It's altered our life on a daily basis. It's 24-7, trying to recover. I don't want anyone else to go through this.”
“I had to focus on some personal areas in my life with the little bit of privacy that I have.”
“She's pretty much my drama-queen normal kid, except she doesn't have a normal life.”
“Life is a roller coaster, ... There are ups, there are downs, there are hills, there are valleys, peaks and so on. And [Burton] knew that there were some pictures that I did over the years with some directors that should have been turned into guitar picks, and would have been more worthwhile had they been. But he understood that I understood that.”
“There had to be a different way of recognising and paying commissions, and now the life companies will be taking the risk of policy continuation by funding commission streams,”
“It is born to every Western girl to like outdoor life and to do all kinds of wild, daring things.”
“That's depressing to hear of health clubs locking them up. I can save someone's life with it.”
“Life is extremely valuable, and you don't always get a second chance. What a way to be able to say thank you to someone.”
“Life is challenging enough already and, with what has happened, we want to do everything we can to help them with this transition without making it any more difficult. They need their lives to get back to normal as soon as possible.”
“Relay for Life is an opportunity for residents to come together as a community to support community members who have survived cancer, who are fighting cancer, and to remember those who lost their battle with cancer.”
“I hate to be waiting all my life. Just tell me.”
“No one hit anyone. Yeah, people were yelling a little bit, you know, but it's part of life. The idea is to go and get something done.”
“People with PTSD tell me their life is so miserable, they're willing to try anything to feel better. I'm amazed that what seemed to be science fiction just a few years ago is being tested. So this is a really big move forward.”
“I can die when I wish to: that is my elixir of life.”
“Sure, most of our income is now spent on needs, and the wants of life get put off more frequently than in the past, but life is simpler and so much more enjoyable. Frantic mornings getting kids ready for day care have turned into enjoyable breakfasts with the family and conversations on which park or hike the kids would like to enjoy with Mom.”
“Norman Foster understands how to design a bold urban icon while simultaneously enhancing the environment and quality of life of the building's occupants.”
“In his professional life as well as in his service to the community and other causes, he truly has lived our company mission of extending and enhancing human life, ... Don will leave behind a tremendous legacy of achievement. The company and I have benefited greatly from Don's strategic vision and outstanding organizational skills over the past years, and I'm grateful I will be able to continue to rely on his wisdom and expertise over the next six months, as he moves forward with his plans to explore new leadership opportunities ahead.”
“I do more of an abstract, free flowing type of work. Somewhere in life you want to make a statement and I wanted personal satisfaction, to express myself.”
“Our first priority is life-saving missions to get all the people that are victims that are stranded in New Orleans out as soon as possible and then start our life-sustaining missions, which are getting water, ice, food to all the victims and making sure they can continue their lives.”
“We were all brought up to think that the biggest goal in life was to pay off your mortgage. Now a lot of folks are questioning whether they really need to hold onto that much home equity.”
“You can't put a price tag on a child's life.”
“The real notion is that of the fusion in real life between this vanguard layer of the working class, the real leaders of real struggles of workers at factory and neighborhood levels, of woman's struggles, of youth struggles, of national minority struggles, and the political vanguard organization.”
“He was an important part of my life. He introduced me to the game at 4, and for the next 24 years, he was my coach. But more importantly, he was my friend and inspiration.”
“People are happy he's not going to have problems in his personal life, ... On the other hand, he would rather have the focus on the issues ... so it probably cuts both ways.”
“He's the best and the most expensive in the country. And Steve, in real life, looks nothing like the president.”
“It's a white collar criminal act and they're gambling when they do it. You're gambling with your life. Because if you're convicted it's a felony charge. If you have a gaming license you will never again have one. If you have a business license, in some places, you may never again have one. You could go to jail.”
“Herding Cats, A Life in Politics,”
“Early detection and antibiotic therapy has been promoted as a means to delay chronic bacterial lung growth and prolong life, and breath analysis may be an effective first step toward treatment. In the long term, these findings on sulfide levels also might help uncover some of the underlying mechanisms of the disease.”
“Honestly, I have had to live like a high priestess in this show. It is a very, very lonely life. When you work the way I work - that means hard - there's no time for play.”
“There was a time in my life where I was content with never returning to the sport. These people stuck behind me through everything. That's probably the only reason I made it back.”
“It could be life-threatening to those people. Those people are already living on a precipice and could be pushed off. Those people are encouraged not to come back to the city.”
“But poetry is my life. Poetry is what matters to me.”
“And I watch my friends, most of whom are in academic life because most poets have to be in academic life, there aren't so many other ways to survive.”
“I was born into a very, very poor family during the war in 1941. Life was miserable for everyone.”
“My hero was Tom Merry, and I tried to mould my way of life according to his tenets.”
“It's a very beautiful show. And it paints a story about life itself.”
“He was very distraught, but he's also remaining strong for his son, George. That's his life. If it weren't for him I don't know whether [Michael] would be able to deal with all he's dealing with.”
“Who is more deserving: a young healthy person, with many years of life ahead? A person at great risk? Someone who's pregnant? ... It's very unclear.”
“All dreams come to an end and tonight was it. But life goes on. It's like my uncle said, 'He wanted the gold just as bad as I did, but silver is just as sweet.”
“It basically took my life away. I don't really care if I see daylight tomorrow.”
“If one person decides to get checked for cancer and a life is saved because we met and they heard my story, then it's worth something.”
“Because I'm everybody's mother, I'm a beloved character. It makes life so sweet for me. No matter where I go people are happy to meet me, so I try to be a nice person. I don't want to disappoint them.”
“[T]he House of Maidens was for little girls whose whole duty in life was to spill things, break things, and forget things . . . until they had spilled, broken, and forgotten everything they could, and thus made room in their lives for a little wisdom.”
“We had a great time. It gave us a positive outlook on life. We have more confidence now and we are incorporating exercise into our everyday living.”
“The pieces are so colorful. He told me, 'These are the memories of my life growing up.' They're all about Hispanic family life and culture.”
“She's a very tough, calm, sensible dog. This dog lives this terrific life in California. All I used to be worried about was her being kicked by the horse. Now that seems so far away.”
“The fact is she comes into public life during a time of change. She speaks openly about issues and the interests she has in them.”
“I brought them here to make a good life.”
“I hate to paint portraits! I hope never to paint another portrait in my life. Portraiture may be all right for a man in his youth, but after forty I believe that manual dexterity deserts one, and, besides, the color-sense is less acute. Youth can better stand the exactions of a personal kind that are inseparable from portraiture. I have had enough of it.”
“It's a way of life, not just a job. You have to want to do it.”
“I've thought a lot about that. Maybe Natalie got baptized in the river of life, by the very hand of Jesus. She's in the presence of the Lord.”
“protect life in a test tube.”
“The Meaning of Life”
“Most pro-life voters just feel he's turned his back on them.”
“Many of these names on the Walk of Fame bloom larger than life. They created the grammar of cinema.”
“All of his movies had a profound effect on my life, in my work and all of my generation, ... He transcended cinema acting. It was no longer acting, it was human behavior.”
“Shafer was pretty darn good today. I've never seen more balls hit off the handle in all of my life. If we were using wooden bats, they'd be shattered all over the field.”
“If you have a comfortable life then you're going to become a nice sort of couch potato, and just take it in and be brain dead.”
“Has it ever struck you that the vast majority of the will of God for your life has already been revealed in the Bible? That is a crucial thing to grasp.”
“He has just changed my outlook and my attitude on life. He changed me as a person. I have grown up so much since I have been here.”
“I realize you have a personal life outside of work. And when you're here we expect you to put the customers first.”
“People are always so impressed that I continue to live life, ... I don't find that so impressive; I'm just living like anyone else would.”
“Some people think that God peers over the balcony of heaven trying to find anybody who is enjoying life. And when He spots a happy person, He yells, ''Now cut that out!'' That concept of God should make us shudder because it's blasphemous!”
“There's so much more energy, ... There's so much more life. You get more attention from friends and relatives, from people on the street. That's why I came to Stanford: For the chance to be proud of what we're doing here and where we're going.”
“The present is the funeral of the past,/ And man the living sepulchre of life.”
“The United States expresses our sincere condolences to the people of the Philippines for the loss of the life and the suffering of other victims, family members and loved ones. We hope and pray that ongoing search and rescue operations will help save as many lives as possible.”
“All news is an exaggeration of life.”
“I've learned a lot, but I'm still a student. A student of life and art.”
“Bah! You asked for it. This is your life. The price is right enough. You've got no secrets. People are . . . well, never mind. But tell me, boys and girls and Federal gentlemen, has anyone had time to think of Khrushchev lately?”
“For many of my friends, including myself, this is one of the most significant spiritual places of my life. And also it's just been a place to have fun n hanging out at the pool, volleyball tournaments, some of us now bring out boats and hang out on the water. The relationships I've made at camp have been life-lasting. You just can't put a dollar amount on it.”
“She's the opposite of a coach potato. She spends her days hunting on a farm. She's already lived that life.”
“Our life is very integrated. It's not like we have time off and time on.”
“Half our mistakes in life arise from feeling where we ought to think, and thinking where we ought to feel.”
“I started about six years ago [on her double life in motocross]”
“I spend my life essentially alone at a computer. That doesn't change. I have the same challenges every day.”
“It makes game-day harder. When he got diagnosed, life got a lot more difficult. He had to be more organized and prepared. That's a lot to ask of a teenager.”
“This was a real, live swimming fish 58 million years ago. It probably had a very happy life until one summer when the river dried up and it died.”
“I don't know what I'd be doing with my life if not music. I'd probably die. I love to listen to all types of music.”
“There is life after sports. What we're trying to do is give you some skills to be successful out in the real world. I promise you I will take people to dinner or lunch for interviews, and I will watch how they eat to see if they have proper manners. It tells so much about a person.”
“There was a moment when we thought about not doing this. Then there was an immediate 'yes.' Life will go on and we are going to move ahead.”
“It's saving a life. In fact, it's saving two lives in the name of love.”
“It would be difficult to avoid breathing here in life. It's a contradiction in terms, because no matter what choice you make, it's dramaturgy. Dogma 95 contains a few impossible, paradoxical rules, but the same goes for religious dogmas, too.”
“Celebrities can have a positive influence on our life, with positive messages. They can be very helpful in terms of increasing awareness and decreasing stigma about many problems, including health problems, that might otherwise not get the attention they need.”
“There's the perception that we didn't do anything. But we had a life-saving mission, which we met, and we had a life-sustaining mission, which we met.”
“It could be a negative statement about life in Nevada, but when you're talking family issues, it could be (about) any number of other factors, ... That goes for CEOs, not just little college professors.”
“I've played offense my whole life. I think I'm geared toward offense. I understand the offensive tendencies and how to execute plays and score points. Playing receiver, I can score and make an impact. Playing defense, if you do what you're supposed to do at corner, no one throws at you. It gets kind of boring.”
“A guy knows he'll get out, and he doesn't really have to try and do anything to turn his life around.”
“Probably the biggest hit he's had all year. These guys kept plugging and Gautreau really put life into us.”
“A lot of the stuff I enjoy about his act is his real life (material), growing up on a farm. Midwestern people understand his material.”
“My concern is that kids are too involved in things that they will end of regretting later in life that they didn't have time to just be kids,”
“I'm being told how much this has changed my life, but I haven't stepped outside into the civilian world for weeks, ... My family doesn't treat me any different, but a lot of people ask me for autographs. That is completely different for me, but I'm a lead singer, I love attention.”
“Maria was full of life. I always used to tell her she was very high impact. She brought a lot of life to every situation.”
“There is no life expectancy.”
“I know so many girls who did it and they are hurting every day of their life.”
“I am not going to let Athens affect the rest of my life.”
“Otherwise, you just become partners managing the kids and life, and that makes your marriage more vulnerable to problems down the road.”
“Water is, to the best of our knowledge, the key building block of life. If we can find it on Mars, it would help us glue together the geologic history of Mars and help us find out if there ever was life on Mars.”
“Not only is it sad because you know how much life is lost . . . you know you'll never be able to replace it like it was.”
“Obviously these kids have been through a lot. Anything we can do to help them get back in their life routines is what we want to do.”
“I do some of my best thinking about life and a lot of different things when I'm knitting. My mind is someplace else rather than just sitting there in the living room.”
“It's a quality of life issue. We did our homework. We're trying to give the neighborhood a say.”
“The next minute I heard on the speaker to grab your life vest and report to the safety level. Honestly, the movie Titanic, that ran through my mind.”
“I've got a best new friend for the rest of my life.”
“I only drank for three years of my life, but I drank enough in those three years to last me the rest of my life.... It's a religious thing.”
“To be sure, real differences of opinion existed between the groups. Compared to pro-life participants, pro-choice participants had more favorable personal attitudes toward the pro-choice issues and less favorable attitudes toward the pro-life issues, and vice versa.”
“Eric is a very bright young man who is likely to succeed in life. He is intelligent enough to achieve lofty goals as long as he stays on task and remains motivated.”
“They really know what they want out of life, which is amazing considering the culture they came from, Boulder at that time.”
“It made me feel phenomenal. It has changed my life.”
“People meant a lot to her. She always wanted to touch people. Maria was just full of life. She had a lot of heart.”
“It's all about the oil. It's the blood that fuels our way of life here. We didn't want (former Iraqi President) Saddam Hussein to monopolize it. Money is driving the oil. We need other means of energy.”
“He weaves, and is clothed with derision;/ Sows, and he shall not reap;/ His life is a watch or a vision/ Between a sleep and a sleep.”
“I live next to the quarry which I remember from its later stages of life as just a large water-filled hole in the ground.”
“Pictures you have taken have an influence on those that you are going to make. That's life!”
“I just try to have a normal life.”
“Relay For Life is a celebration as well as a unique, challenging and fun way to raise money for the American Cancer Society and to raise cancer awareness in the community.”
“It was definitely the most scared I've ever been in my life. I know how close we came to being severely injured, or killed.”
“carefully consider the submarine design construction life cycle support capabilities inherent with Electric Boat and the unique synergy between Electric Boat and New London Submarine Base....”
“I think going through that stuff made him a better person. When you go through adversity in life, it helps you on the football field.”
“carefully consider the submarine design construction life cycle support capabilities inherent with Electric Boat and the unique synergy between Electric Boat and New London Submarine Base....”
“I love the life in New York. New York has an excitement about it. You have so many people, so many different things to do. It's all in one place, and I really enjoy it.”
“When a team's down, you've got to keep them down and not give them any life. We didn't do that and it's something that throughout the year we have to improve upon.”
“There was a vacancy and a need for women to support each other in music, in business, in life.”
“I have never been so agonized in my entire life.”
“Sam told me it was the match of his life. Sam played a flawless match, and he did not let up on Whitman. He dictated the play of the match from beginning to end.”
“A life jacket will at least keep you floating.”
“Tokens are extremely portable, easy to use, and their life expectancy is more than seven years.”
“[They] bring this wonderful script to life in a way that is even more hysterical than I could have imagined. We?re very fortunate to have such a talented cast.”
“I have never been so impressed with anyone in rehearsal in my life as I was with her,”
“It would put us in financial ruin (to abandon the project). We're up to our necks in debt. Our life savings is sitting up there. That piece of land that our house is going on is it.”
“He may have been careless, but it doesn't rise to the level of reckless and wanton disregard for human life.”
“For the first time in my life, I really had to do something so we made a pact to stay and change the whole plan.”
“I lost my sister and that showed me how precious life really is. We went through that as a family. It was tough. But it made me a better person.”
“He couldn't get her out of his life. She wouldn't leave. She wanted everything, and he didn't know how to get rid of her because of her threats.”
“From the first time she entered his life, she stressed him out. He was having chest pains, lying down in between patients.”
“I plan on spending my life here. It's everything to me.”
“I don't know who the man was; just that he was on life support. I want to be able to meet his family and thank them.”
“How many of you have given your life to Jesus?”
“All my life, I have been taught to take the high road, and never to dignify salacious or false accusations. And I have been taught never, never to lie. Not only do I never lie, I never respond to lies, no matter how vicious, no matter how hurtful.”
“Whenever people feel their way of life is being threatened, they are going to go out and buy guns for protection,”
“Our goal is to be able to educate these children until they're launched into life.”
“All my life, I have been taught to take the high road, and never to dignify salacious or false accusations,”
“To me, they were the hardest-working people I've ever seen in my life. They worked from sunup to sundown and yet had very little to show for it.”
“We had tore the track up last fall. We opened it up and tried to get some new life into it. It took longer to prep it this year, and we had more moisture this year. But it's come along real good.”
“Dead money that springs to life will die again.”
“I've never been able to play defense in my life.”
“Jermaine came to make many choices in his life that simply broke our hearts because we knew that he was making things so much harder on himself. But as I said, he had to find his own way.”
“My mother shut all her family out of her life over the years, though we made several futile attempts to stay connected. May God rest her soul.”
“This is his life. He basically works for his dietary supplements, to pay for the gym time and for the equipment that will help him advance and lift more weights. If Jeff continues to work and not do things out of character, I see him going to nationals and the worlds. He's very capable of going as far as he can in this sport.”
“One of my personal favorite moments in life was when a buddy of mine and I were working in the joust. We finished up one really hot day, went over to the Rosie Stag, a little on-site period tavern, clapped our swords on the table, ordered up a pitcher of ale, whipped out our period pipes and tobacco, and just sat there relaxing for the next hour waiting for the next joust. Moments like that, you feel like you've transcended into what (life) might have been at that time.”
“Since it looks at the basic building block of life, DNA, it can tell with a high degree of confidence what agent you are actually looking at.”
“I've never been able to play defense in my life. I knew that from the first second on the floor, I was going to be dominated on the defensive side.”
“I had no interest in the media. But life changes and you do certain things. The Wings offered me a job and I took it. I've been very lucky.”
“democracy may seem an attractive idea. But it is impossible to maintain in real life. An experiment in democracy would take us on the road to disaster. Look at what happened to the Athenians.”
“I have been poor all of my life. It don't bother me. Now, if I was down and out, if it was life or death, then I would be different. But I honestly don't care. He (Dante) wants to sell it. He feels like this is our opportunity and we need to make the most of it.”
“She absolutely refused to let cancer take over her life.”
“When you go through an experience like that, you have a whole new perspective on life. The little things that you used to worry over ? finding the remote control, something like that ? you don't worry about.”
“further the ideals that inspired Daniel's life and work.”
“The fact of life is, the majority of customers pay bills by mail, through automatic withdrawal or by electronic banking.”
“There's a lot of different things that we do during life that could personally harm us and I choose not to stop doing those things.”
“They said the mother lived with the kids, that was her whole life.”
“I think it's nice. I've wanted all my life to see this happen. I remember people telling me when I was little I might live long enough to see it happen. And now I'm seeing it.”
“At this point, if I were an Iraqi opposition figure, I wouldn't lay my life on the line based on the president's word.”
“Native American teens in South Dakota are showing their support for the pro-life movement by participating in this year's National Pro-life T- shirt Day. As we prepare to kick off this year's event on April 25, American Life League joins with the youth of South Dakota to speak out about the horrors of abortion.”
“Part of living a healthy life is paying attention to friends and family.”
“American Life League's National Pro-life T-shirt Day is an excellent opportunity for the young and old alike to spread a strong pro- life message simply by the shirt they choose to wear. As we prepare for the fourth annual event next Tuesday, we are certain that this year's T-shirt day will reach people around the nation with a simple, direct message in support of innocent human beings.”
“It's inappropriate and vulgar and absolutely unacceptable to use your private life to sell anything commercially, but I think it's kind of a sickness.”
“I value the privacy of my home and personal life extremely highly and am prepared to take appropriate measures to protect it.”
“It's heartbreaking. Losing my mum has ruined his life.”
“I'm so happy. Mother says: She's my life. I Love you.”
“It's the biggest day of my life.”
“to support the causes to which he dedicated his life.”
“My entire political career, I voted pro-life, and that is exactly why I favor the stem cell initiative. I believe in saving human life. I want cures to be found.”
“The pro-life message will not be silenced in our schools.”
“We need to try and reduce the number of incidents so we can protect property and life. That's a higher priority than those who will be inconvenienced... Hopefully, after 30 days or 60 days, things will be greener and we'll have some rain and we won't have these problems.”
“The dual-gain architecture of these new products provides excellent efficiency and extends the battery life of portable devices. The exceptional current matching is ideal for uniform lighting in thin handheld devices.”
“This is the biggest win of my life.”
“Everything in life can be characterized by its factual and emotional qualities. The Vagina Monologues focus on education, awareness and other factual topics while using emotion to humanize these facts to the audience.”
“The biggest unanswered question is how Venus went so terribly wrong and became such a hellish place for life.”
“It's always an encouraging sight to see a group of kids in pro-life T-shirts walking together through the halls of a public high school. That puts it all together; the right to life for every human being in this country is just as fundamental as the right to free speech. And that's the message we hope to send with American Life League's National Pro-life T- shirt Day.”
“I could have expected a life bit for every one of them.”
“The pro-life message will not be silenced in our schools. Wearing a T- shirt with a pro-life message is about more than just making a statement. It presents the truth about the horrors of abortion, while at the same time offers hope for the future. Pro-life T- shirts can and do save lives.”
“It's overwhelmingly likely that life exists on other planets.”
“It seems to be overwhelmingly likely that there is life out there and eventually we will make contract. And when contact is made, it will be the end of Earth's cultural evolution. It will be the greatest discovery in the history of humankind.”
“The whole goal of the improvement of the quality of life worldwide is dependent on knowing the situation of women, men, the elderly, infants.”
“He is a man who is ready for redemption. He has lived a selfish, hedonistic life for the last 20 years and is now faced with looking at himself in the mirror,”
“When people walk out of here, you think about your own personal life. I'm not going to complain ? it could be a lot worse. We go home every night, kiss our family, grateful that everybody is home and OK. It's a big wake-up call.”
“For the life of me, I've yet to understand why the Bush Administration would oppose this emergency agricultural assistance.”
“I am thankful for my life and that we are all safe. But I'm very depressed, and I don't know where we will go from here.”
“I have never seen anything like it in my life. At first we thought there had been an explosion.”
“She was in her glory right now, the best time of her life. She was just so happy, everything was perfect.”
“You could probably end it in different parts of my life either as a tragedy or a comedy or a success story, ... It all depends on how they'd want to depict it.”
“For working mothers such as myself, balancing work and life is a constant challenge. The key to balancing time effectively is setting boundaries and priorities ahead of time both at home and at work. Planning for priorities a month or week in advance can help to replace a stressful juggling act with a manageable schedule.”
“I've been trying to prove myself my whole life. I was always looked at as an athlete with an attitude when I was in high school. Then I was just an 'Ordinary Joe' as a walk-on. Now I'm doing two sports.”
“It feels like it breaks down a barrier that is often there in everyday life around prejudice. We're having the opportunity to see folks as fellow human beings to whom we're reaching out in a time of need.”
“For the life of me, I'm at my wit's end trying to figure out how to get this team to play hard for 40 minutes. Against BG, we had a great first half and sucked the second half; against these guys, we sucked the first half and had a great second half, but not great enough. We've got a lot of players who just want to participate and don't want to compete.”
“Meeting her was life-changing for me.”
“It's time to stop the madness. We're going to put a stake in the ground right now. We're pro-life for cool cars.”
“Louis's own life can be broken down into two distinct phases: everything that occurred before he received the telegram, and everything that occurred after.”
“There are very little things in this life I cannot afford and patience is one of them.”
“Mine were informal mentors. They were all in my working life.”
“The biggest thing for me is to remember this is somebody's property. This is somebody's life.”
“Life is great. The miracles I've experienced. The sharing of experiences with friends, family, like I've never seen before. These are things that I avoided my whole life, not choosing to be a part of, but today I cherish them.”
“The goal of life is living in agreement with nature.”
“Three weeks of your life is just cut out, and it's gone.”
“My pearl, my life, my loved ones have been turned upside down,”
“The high level of violence and the tragic loss of life are putting the cease-fire agreement at risk and will make it very difficult to secure further progress in the peace process.”
“I study the life of each saint before I paint and I try to pray as I do the work, but I don?t always remember to. I?m not the holiest guy. But I do go in a zone where nothing else but the painting exists.”
“I think it's a tremendous amount of fun. Flamenco is about life and especially life, death and love — and your mother.”
“Earlier in life [he] had such a severe alcoholism problem that he almost died and was homeless for extended periods of time. He has been sober for decades and came out of his addiction through AA,”
“We did have evidence from real life resuscitations with skilled health care providers that compressions were being interrupted so frequently for legitimate medical treatment.”
“We're going to prove the defendant displayed a wanton and willful disregard for life,”
“She did some stupid things in her life.”
“Companies looking to improve application security must approach it as a life-cycle problem.”
“As we strive for the magic bullet or infinite life expectancy, we need to understand that health-care costs will go up in order to achieve this, and they will not go down.”
“Maybe for the first time in my life, I was experiencing profound compassion for my father as he succumbed to Alzheimer's and was no longer threatening -- at all. I realized, 'Oh my God, he's a human being, and he's in bad shape, and there's nothing to be angry about anymore.' And then when the anger dropped, I just felt for him. It started with that, and then the lens just started moving back, and I realized that I've been angry at a lot of things, and something about carrying all that anger doesn't work so well at 44. It was kinda cool in my teens and 20s. Then in my 30s it started to be exhausting. And in my 40s, you know, I'm just too tired to be angry.”
“Life without parole for kids presumes that they can't be changed.”
“Allowing any drilling off the coast poses a serious threat to our way of life and our economy. We would like to see our policy-makers fighting to oppose any drilling in the eastern Gulf of Mexico.”
“It's a potential threat to the life industry. If people start saving through employer-sponsored pension arrangements and are able to make additional contributions, then why would they want to buy life insurance products?”
“What life companies have to do is get their costs down to less than 1 percent of funds under management,”
“I take a simple view of life. It is keep your eyes open and get on with it.”
“Sometimes this thing becomes bigger than life itself. It isn't.”
“It's often said that there are countries where bribery is a way of life, and that's still the case.”
“Companies looking to improve application security must approach it as a life-cycle problem.”
“I just hope that rationality returns to the marketplace because employee pricing sucked the life out of the auto industry for basically the rest of the year.”
“For me, the most interesting thing was that... much of our interactions with Electric Sheep took place in Second Life , avatar to avatar. The social aspects of Second Life were a very interesting part of the project for me because a lot of this took place in that world, even though it was a real-world contract between two companies.”
“He had a wonderful life -- a full life. He was disabled, but he did what he could with the body God gave him.”
“There was a time in his life that he was really interested in making money and his business -- and he had fun with it. But now it just doesn't seem to hold his interest.”
“We have found the 28-year-old male victim in Norfolk County. He was treated for a non-life-threatening injury.”
“Down in the south, in Basra and some of the towns there, life is returning to normal,”
“Your life insurance coverage benefits were not set forth in the expired contract, nor has any agreement been reached to continue such benefits.”
“If you want to be happy for life, love what you do.”
“The production gives you a real life simulation. You've got to trust each other and get it done. It's not a typical 'work hard, study and get a grade' class.”
“She loved life, she lived every day to the fullest, and she was just coming into her own. She had just found her purpose. She discovered her love of helping people. I'm empty - that's the best feeling I have right now.”
“His injuries were very serious, even life-threatening.”
“This is one of the best blessings I've received in my life”
“I saw this as a bridge between my pitiful lifestyle and a better life, ... I still thought our house would appreciate and somehow we'd eventually retire as millionaires.”
“It was a time in my life. I made a mistake. I pleaded guilty to it. I admitted to what my problems were. I paid my debt to society, and moved on.”
“This is my dad. I'm an only child. My whole life is my father.”
“[Still, who will complain, since in both real life and cinematic fantasy everyone agrees that what is needed all round is a change of image. MI6 offers disguised profiles of its latest recruits, which are replete with red-brick universities, second-class degrees, and operatives with Asian names. The movie men are looking for something new too.] We're trying to reinvent Bond, ... It's very difficult to think of new ways of blowing things up. It's the journey that's the thing - finding a new journey for the character.”
“It was the end of a semi-feudal life and it was also the beginning of one's own life.”
“A crossing of a Rubicon in life history.”
“She has been my mentor all of my life. She gave me my first job, when I was 14. She is one person I will always remember and attribute my success to.”
“Everybody?s trying to figure out what the heck happened because everybody knows he changed his life around.”
“The AXA and New York Life settlements are important building blocks not only toward seeking financial recovery for the losses resulting from the Armenian Genocide but also in our ultimate goal, which is for Turkey and the US to officially acknowledge the genocide.”
“Hockey is important, but you have your life.”
“Music has been an important part of my life forever. I played piano since birth. I've been a church pianist for over 50 years, and played in piano bars from Boston to Bangkok.”
“I've seen too much of life to believe this is fair and just. What do you gain by taking somebody's life?”
“I had to learn the hard way some really important life lessons. There was really no one there to say, don't do this or don't do that.”
“Being able to do what you enjoy in life is a blessing. Some weeks you get paid and some weeks are not so good,”
“There should be a site visit to make things equal, but life isn't always fair.”
“Tomorrow's white paper on education marks a pivotal moment in the life of this parliament and this government,”
“It just kind of destroyed my relationships, with allowing new people into my life.”
“That, I think, is a contract for life. I hope he never leaves. He has the same basic philosophy as I do and that is building the fundamentals.”
“Life-Flo carries six categories of health care product lines, giving its customers a broad spectrum of products for their specific needs, ... Our customers have come to trust the quality and efficacy of Life-Flo's life-changing products.”
“My job is to ... sort of guide them through the negative and positive energies in their life and erase the barriers and increase the strength so they can accomplish their goals.”
“It was one of the grandest sights, if not the grandest sight, in my life, ... Imagine a white locomotive, with wings that spread 20 feet each way, coming right toward you with a tremendous flap of its propellers.”
“He worked his whole life to be governor - it was his dream in politics and it turned out to be a nightmare.”
“He's been crying out for help all his life.”
“perpetrated by fanatics, utterly indifferent to the sanctity of human life.”
“This is another important step in executing our growth strategy in the group life and disability business. We look forward to the distribution opportunities this new relationship will provide for both companies.”
“What has happened to the party I've spent my life working in?”
“These are truly local heroes, working to make community life stronger, tighter, happier, richer -- busy people who unselfishly give their time and energy to help others, who always seem to be able to make time to offer a hand or a shoulder.”
“I'm reminded of the fragility of life, and that the only thing in life that we really have any control over is attitude, ... she cried a little bit, but the next day she said, 'God is going to take care of me, and I don't have anything to worry about.'”
“Mrs. Eckert was a strong force in my life. She helped to develop in me a strong work ethic. She was a demanding teacher, but I didn't mind doing what she assigned. She taught her students to work hard and to accomplish whatever they set out to do, in spite of the obstacles. She taught us to never back down when we knew what we were doing or saying was right. She was very much a people person - she didn't forget anyone.”
“It probably could have been a life-changing experience for him. Fortunately, it wasn't ... But he's the same old Bob.”
“He gave up his life for those values.”
“As Mr. Henderson pointed out, she's at a crossroads in her life right now, but she's realized she has the opportunity to change that now. She has agreed to work with investigators and will testify as part of the (plea) agreement.”
“work together to seize this opportunity to inject new life into the peace process.”
“Blaming each other does not save a life, does not feed a single family or compensate them in their loss.”
“It's depressing, ... I've been playing football my whole life with all the kids on my team.”
“Most people hew the battlements of life from compromise, erecting their impregnable keeps from judicious submissions, fabricating their philosophical drawbridges from emotional retractions and scalding marauders in the boiling oil of sour grapes. Save Me the Waltz, 1932”
“He bowed out relatively gracefully, and that gave him a ticket to future political life.”
“I want to make this one of coach's hardest decisions he's ever had to make in his life, so to do that, I want to find 16 players that he would honestly put on his team.”
“That's a lot of years and a lot of experience, but I don't get too philosophical about it, ... Life will go on, even for Democrats.”
“It used to be thought that brain development ended in young adulthood, but now we know (it) continues throughout life. I think George would agree that it doesn't stop in the 50s. It's just overtaken by the negative effects of aging, so that the net effect is mental decline after that age.”
“Life has changed dramatically for me since the 2004 Athens Olympics. With every meet I'm learning more. I have no real pressure on me since I have both breaststroke (100m/200m) world records.”
“I've been in other relationships since Paul. He's been a big part of my life, and he's a very good friend now. But the songs are informed by all my relationships. There are certain lines that are directly about one person or situation, so directly that I'm sure those people recognize it. And that may be why I do this, to get my point across — though not in a mean way.”
“The exact scope of it, with respect to the beginning of life and the end of life, those are issues that are coming before the court in both respects, and I don't think that I should go further,”
“Mother Teresa devoted her life to the poor and her spirit will live on as an inspiration to all of us.”
“We know there will be some issues there. You can replace things, but you can't replace a life.”
“Oh, the secret life of man and woman --dreaming how much better we would be than we are if we were somebody else or even ourselves, and feeling that our estate has been unexploited to its fullest.”
“Life up here is an extraordinary experience ... but we miss the richness, the texture, the three-dimensional nature of living on our home planet.”
“We did the best we could. It is disappointing that it didn't go exactly as we wanted, but that's life in the big city.”
“They're here to make a better life. They're here to make a better community.”
“Co-ops are one of the few affordable housing options for students that want life close to campus.”
“It will definitely be the most fun they have ever had in their life.”
“We will respect family life. We will develop it and encourage it in any way that we can, for strong families are the foundation of strong communities.”
“John Paul II is the most important person in my life, ... I owe him a lot, and I wanted to thank him.”
“It's obviously the greatest games I have ever played in my life.”
“Honestly, I want to say that life was very hard.”
“I think this is a real lesson in life, to be honest with you. I don't think (Bode) really grasped the enormity of '60 Minutes' - to go on and say what he did was really not thought out at all.”
“He'd dress up like Moses or like Jesus, and he felt it was his calling in life to collect money from people and give them a chance to serve,”
“It felt like an hour. A couple of seconds can change your life forever.”
“to preserve and protect life and property.”
“I don't really think about dance except just before rehearsals start, ... I put it off. I don't live my life thinking about dance.”
“She's our life source. When she throws the ball well, we are a hard team to beat.”
“Dan is my hero. He saved my life.”
“I wanted this thing all my life and I finally got it.”
“This is a positive note for the Red Lake nation. We're talking about a way of life. My father and several other people's fathers lived off the resources of this nation.”
“destroying and manipulating human life.”
“We want to really emphasize above all that sport is a small part of life, ... We want to use our visibility and the respect we have with the public and the respect our teams have to support the national recovery program. That's the big thing.”
“We will hold true to the British way of life.”
“We want to really emphasize above all that sport is a small part of life. We want to use are visibility and the respect we have with the public and the respect our teams have to support the national recovery program. That's the big thing.”
“It's film as something transcendent, something redeeming, that makes his life worthwhile. It's a tremendously life-affirming film. And yet it's about not making a film. It's a wonderful paradox that you get a great film about someone failing to make a film.”
“is that in real life there's the next day, the next year, the next lifetime to contemplate the ruinous consequences of easy applause.”
“I represent a generation that knows about life in the West and the rest of the world, people who want to do everything possible so that we become a normal European country.”
“I don't know if we'd call this a renaissance, but I think he's certainly coming back to life both on and off the court. He may never get back to where his potential was two or three years ago, but there was always the sense that he could rebuild some of that equity. ... It's clear he's well on his way.”
“Our biggest concern is that this project is going to wreck the quality of life up here as we know it.”
“I definitely experienced the highs and lows tonight. It was the worst feeling of my life and the best feeling all in one. I just tried to get that last shot up.”
“What they're doing has happened throughout history. It's the natural life cycle of a conglomerate.”
“I've been fishing all my life and I hate to see that pulled out from under me. They're stabbing me in the back, taking away my childhood dream.”
“I long ago came to the conclusion that all life is 6 to 5 against”
“We want to be your communications provider for life.”
“I figure you get out of life just about what you put into it.”
“Your life may be really boring in reality, but online you're a competitive superhero.”
“That was the happiest day of my life, not just in Formula One. Full stop. Proudest day of my life,”
“They were probably the happiest five years of my life but also the hardest and, hopefully, with a bit of pressure off maybe it will give me time to reconsider what if anything might still be around.”
“Libraries and books have always been a part of my life and have made a difference in my life. I have always had a passion for books, both reading and collecting.”
“You don't have to fight for your life anymore. You're starting a new one.”
“It was a real nightmare down there, just in terms of trying to live a normal life and get to work.”
“This is about publicity for the police. Community boards and groups have been loud about quality of life issues, and the police are placating them.”
“I lived on that boat half my life, ... It was sick.”
“They are guys who have put their life on the lines for us, in very dangerous situations, came back home, for some reason or another just got really screwed up and they need a hand.”
“There is still life in it.”
“People hate the commercialization of the holidays. They are looking for a better quality of life, not more stuff. We've done the survey for the past four years, and the results are fairly consistent.”
“Sue is a dedicated, dynamic leader who has significantly contributed to the quality of life for women in Missouri and will undoubtedly harness that experience to help affect change at the national level. We look forward to her taking the helm and amplifying the voices of survivors.”
“I've been marked as a failure all my life. It just feels good to actually have some success at doing something. My high school coach told me I was making a huge mistake by coming to Bradley. Now look at me. It's huge for me. It's more than basketball right now.”
“Life is not so important as the duties of life”
“After therapy for cancer, society often assumes that children can get back to life as before, but this is simply wrong,”
“To me, [my size] is an advantage, ... People are intimidated, not just in football, but in every day life. Sometimes it's funny. You walk by people and they look up, and they'll wait until you get past them and they'll be like, 'Wow.' Some of them come up and and just say, 'Wow, you're big.' And I'm like, 'Yeah, I know.'”
“Like anyone would do, I said you take his leg, you take whatever you can to save his life.”
“Inflation is screaming. All you have to do is look at your life and what it costs.”
“I truly loved my job, and it was a major, major part of my life.”
“At the CARTI Kids Christmas Party, we celebrate much more than the holidays. We celebrate survivorship, and we celebrate life.”
“I live most of my life in them. My work career is to a great degree international and I am a great believer in the marketplace.”
“I'm not giving him a medal for anything he's done in his life. But we have to be grateful that after 1987 ... no one was molested. No one but Jayson in 18 years? It's unbelievable.”
“It was Barry's decision to get on with his life and not to have this hanging over him.”
“The Little Rascals: The Life and Times of Our Gang.”
“He could relate to other aspects of life -- he could give advice on anything.”
“The difference in the game was three guys: Dante Milligan, Chris Lowe and James Life. They gave us incredible energy and without those guys we don't win the basketball game.”
“When you sit there now and look at your life now and look at your life in the past, you say to yourself, you've come a long way. And you didn't really see it coming, because it happened so gradual and you were working every day that you really didn't see it coming. But you turn around and you wake up and you're there.”
“Dr. King dedicated his life to helping others, and we felt it would be right to honor him by having volunteers from the university go out into the Valparaiso community to help those in need.”
“Basketball is his life. But since the accident, he's a different person. He knows what his friends mean to him. Life means more to him because it was almost taken away.”
“We do the little things, ... I've never seen so many squeezes in my life.”
“The last thing we want to do is give these guys life to get back in the series.”
“Life, friends, is boring. We must not say so.”
“A life quenched in an untimely manner is always sad, the life of a young person quenched, whatever the circumstances, troubles us deeply. If that death arose through suicide that sense of loss is compounded inexorably. TS Eliot's evocative words serve to underline that awful sense of loss for the potential that was never allowed to fully blossom, for all that might have been but wasn't to be:”
“We wanted to develop a tool to make it easier for clients to understand how much life insurance they need to protect their families in the long term.”
“Adults have at least some idea of how to take care of themselves. But children don't have the life experience and are feeling totally abandoned. They have to be plucked out of this as quickly as possible.”
“My father was a tremendous extrovert, always managing to be the center of attention and the life of the party. Mom was just the opposite - quiet, suffering, and neurotic as Hell. Quite a combination, those two. Dad was a terrific ham and Mom was very introverted, and basically sad and self-conscious.”
“It's not only an intriguing disappearance. He had an amazing life. It's kind of a lesson.”
“The younger generation finds a special value in the costumes of poverty and disarray simply because these aspects of life have become far scarcer for children of the middle class than good clothes and comeliness.”
“It's been my dream and it probably always would have been for the rest of my life, to go to the Super Bowl.”
“Research showed that people don't understand how much life insurance they should own or how to figure it out, and that people are afraid to make the wrong decision about life insurance.”
“We envision it to be a center for research and life planning that people from all over the state will take as a model and replicate. We are really excited about the project.”
“The only fun ... is maybe helping improve people's way of life.”
“He's doing really well. He's walking. He's talking. He's living a fairly normal life.”
“The quality of life of a cage-free hen is so much better than the quality of life of a battery-cage hen that this campaign is meant to move the industry in that direction.”
“I'm not on a mission to be famous, ... I'm here and I want to do these things -- life is short.”
“I wanted to make a resource for families making end-of-life decisions. I ended up making two videos, and found the process fascinating.”
“It was my understanding that they had very strict training procedures in effect since that incident, ... Her life is never going to be the same. It's a great day and a great parade, and everybody should be able to enjoy it without worrying about their safety.”
“I saw a need for students to get back to a normal life as possible. I thought, you know, I could get out there and collect them, help them get back on their feet.”
“Clive was so thrilled with life. We would sit around at the end of the day and just laugh. He was my best friend.”
“You should always know when you're shifting gears in life. You should leave your era; it should never leave you.”
“It's one of the high points of my life. It means an awful lot.”
“You want your life back so bad. I spent months trying to get my life back. But that was the wrong goal.”
“This album is, in a sense, closure to a chapter in my life. I've purged myself of some of the things I've been going through in the last five years. That's more important to me than the fear of not being accepted by old fans.”
“The more science learns what life is, the more reluctant scientists are to define it.”
“Years lost in early life are irrecoverable, particularly in cricket.”
“My life off the court has changed. I'm feeling good inside, so I guess it shows on the outside too.”
“I feel John Peel was somebody that we could all trust. Throughout his life, he gave people a sense of a bigger world out there.”
“Bill dedicated his life to protecting others from harm and promoting the highest ideals of professional law enforcement, ... My heart and prayers are with his family as we mourn his passing.”
“It's good, clean fun. This gets me out of the house and gives me a life.”
“I think she's providing extraordinary leadership, ... She's brought in some very distinguished faces, a lot of energy and life into the school. I really admire her.”
“This album is, in a sense, closure to a chapter in my life.”
“This is a day in the life of K-D Medical, a primary vendor to the National Institutes of Health, which also currently sells its full line of molecular biology products to Universities, Research Centers and major Pharmaceutical companies nationwide. While we may not produce products that directly lead to headlines about cures for diseases, we produce the bacterial and yeast growth media, the microbiological buffers and reagents that lead to major advances in science in public health. For instance, we are very involved in the research involving anthrax, which is feared to be a possible biological weapon of choice for terrorists.”
“Why throw away something that is perfectly good? You might as well prolong its life so it can benefit someone else. Pass along the good karma.”
“Spend My Life With You,”
“I was influential in his life and I didn't know it. If I had 50 students like him I would want to teach forever.”
“Ask yourself, do you have a sense of purpose in your job and in your life? If so, how does your job line up with your sense of purpose? We have all kinds of people telling us what we should be. We need to find out what we want to be.”
“Greg is a bit older and more experienced in that he has been playing fly-half all his life. Ollie has only done in for a couple of years.”
“Whatever was happening in his life, his rage and frustration became centered on that little girl. He never hurt or abused any other children. Why he took it out on her, I don't know.”
“Threats abound. This fish is almost infertile, with females laying up to 10 eggs in their 10-month life span. So we're hoping there are enough fish of breeding age to begin spawning.”
“I thought I was doing my right job, my day-to-day life, a manager's life. A manager's job.”
“Whether you're investing for your child's university tuition, a prosperous retirement or a higher quality of life, Value Stock Selector is the easiest and best software package available to help you start building solid wealth right now.”
“It's the safety valve of middle life, and the solace of age”
“This is not a made-for-TV movie. This was a real-life trauma where friends and family had to stay in the dorms and the town swelled to take in the New Orleans evacuees. We are treating people that are injured and disadvantaged 200 yards from our stadium. We have a scrimmage, and Blackhawk helicopters are flying people from New Orleans over our heads.”
“This man's life is on the line, and we need the time.”
“While a handful of countries and a small number of people are leading ample life, dozens of countries and billions of people in Africa, Asia and Latin America are being left in absolute poverty.”
“(Students) always knew next year (they) were going to school. Now (their) adult life starts, and it freaks some people out.”
“The cornerstones of your life are family, religion, philanthropy and compassion. Your relationship with your partner is often destined to be a permanent loving one that survives all obstacles.”
“Sports really taught me discipline. And they taught me to just drive on through life.”
“There's a lot for people to think about. A fish is not worth risking your life for.”
“With the Stanley Cup win, this is the greatest moment of my life.”
“Kids who are encountering that first difficulty with any kind of academic or life event have to re-imagine who they are. When the conclusion is that you're stupid, which is what most kids conclude, I think that has long-lasting, pervasive effects.”
“[Holley] taught us a lot about not only football, but life, ... He is the kind of person I reckon you could say would get the best out of you.”
“This is a life-threatening situation. I don't worry about politeness in life-threatening situations.”
“Part of winning the hearts and minds of the Iraqi people is some tangible improvement in their quality of life. An essential way of doing that is increasing petroleum production and using some of that money to get the electricity on. In both cases, they seem to be doing just enough to keep things from getting worse. They do not seem to have a plan for victory on this front. They seem to have a plan for stalemate.”
“We all want a long life but we all want a long life that's healthy, and sometimes family support can help. When you have families, you want them to have better health than you do, and you want to set a good example for your children.”
“Once you've experienced life as a passenger on the ship, the temperature in the exhibit hall will drop and participants ultimately come face-to-face with an iceberg made of real ice.”
“The main thing he said was this is one of the best times of your life, enjoy it.”
“I know South Dakota politics. The people of South Dakota stand for life, for protecting an unborn child.”
“When the pregnant mothers realize that abortion involves the termination of the life of a human being, they look at the procedure in a different light. It is not taken lightly and for most of the women this fact is of critical importance and leads them to search for other alternatives.”
“Coach (Fisher) took over a dead program. Then he breathed some life into it and turned it around. It was the first time he ever had to rebuild a program.”
“Some kids just don't have anyone in their life who is pushing them into college or scholarships, supporting them -- or even making sure they get up in time to go to school.”
“Seniors, the disabled, the mentally ill, people on life-saving transplant rejection drugs - the least medically secure have been the most affected. At least now with a state emergency declared no one will walk out of the pharmacy without the medications they need.”
“I've been watching him all my life.”
“Relay For Life is as much an awareness raiser about the progress against cancer as it is a fundraiser. Many of the participants will be people who have been cured of cancer themselves. Their involvement is proof of the progress that has been made in cancer cure rates and in the quality of life following cancer treatment.”
“Not only for my son but for what happened, period. There was life lost.”
“He's a hilarious individual with one of the most devastatingly offbeat views of life one could ever encounter.”
“I've never cried in my life, ... This moment was coming, and it's kind of tough.”
“These things are a part of modern life and we'll have to live with them. It's a horrendous thing.”
“I've loved lacrosse my whole life. It was basically the only sport I really ever cared about, and I just couldn't ever picture myself not playing.”
“It has been a good experience for him. I'm proud that he took two years out of his life to live without luxuries -- like McDonalds and radio and television -- to help young people there. He does extra work for the nuns at the school on a farm, and I'm just proud he's willing to give of himself.”
“As a life's work, I would remember everything - everything, against loss. I would go through life like a plankton net.”
“It's a lifelong commitment. An animal is your pet for life. It's going to take a lot of care.”
“I could define the last 5 years of my life with one word. Scared....Scared of not being great.”
“because of the facts in this case and all the facts surrounding her life and family... and the evidence.”
“She's very sorry that she was ever involved in this and is trying to move on with her life. With these problems in addition to her youngsters, it's very difficult.”
“And if nothing else, I've learned that there are people in life who have a need to sort of bask and reflect in glory or to take credit.”
“It's thrilling. There's birth and death and frustration and victory in raising horses. It's like a little microcosm of life is built into the short lives of these creatures.”
“It's like each role prepares me for the next, ... Life is also that way. After Dillard, I wanted to become better versed in Shakespeare and August Wilson. While I worked in 'The Lion King,' I got TV roles.”
“We have tombs with unique architectural style and very important scenes of daily life. We've also opened a lot of kings' pyramids, but today we are opening those of queens. Queens have mystery.”
“I'm 61-years old. I suffered prejudice in this town for his crimes all my life, and I'm struggling to put food on the table. If he passed away right now, we're unprepared.”
“So if life can exist under the ground on Earth, maybe it can exist under the ground on Mars, too.”
“I was having the best time of my life,”
“Even after 9/11, when their life-saving role became clear, employers have dragged their feet on raising wages to a mostly African-American workforce. Four years after 9/11, the real estate industry has short-changed security officers, undermined the safety of their own buildings and jeopardized the well-being of the entire city.”
“It's a bit of a life-changer,”
“We took it as far as we could go. We knew we were down to our last life.”
“It's an edgy, smart, current show filled with satire. It's a parody about current life - it's not a traditional drag show - we have four talented, classically trained singers with a very funny story to tell about politics, religion and sex in America.”
“Virtually anyone who gets one can't stop touching it -- it becomes a major item in your life. It's a dangerous thing.”
“I am so proud of Janie. It has been an honor to be a part of her life and golf career for the past four years. Our program will miss her next spring.”
“[For Tracy Shaw of Southbury, Connecticut, life wouldn't be the same without her Wednesday night supper club (she and three other families from her daughter's daycare center take turns cooking meals), a reasonably priced handyman, a support group called Parents Without Partners, a circle of friends, and reliable babysitters.] Even though my ex-husband lives nearby and spends two evenings a week with our daughter, I'm still her primary caregiver, activities coordinator, and chauffeur, ... Without some help, I would have a tough time maintaining a balanced life.”
“It's just part of the life cycle. We typically see a spike in bat complaints around this time of year, when the young are just learning to fly. They don't do it very well and tend to get into odd places.”
“It's just part of the life cycle. We typically see a spike in bat complaints around this time of year, when the young are just learning to fly. They don't do it very well and tend to get into odd places.”
“Perspective is relative. How we view life all according to our own subjective personalities and realities. There are a lot of other things that can go on to disturb your perspective of what's real to you.”
“The goal in life is to be solid, whereas the way that life works is totally fluid, so you can never actually achieve that goal.”
“We really think the usage pattern over [product] life was different from what we assumed previously. Whether we always had that wrong or there's been a change is hard to say.”
“We live together. We ride together. It's our whole life.”
“I am confident that Americans of all walks of life will come to the defense of the Hubble and cause the Congress to restore the repair of the telescope to the NASA budget.”
“They have no home town, urban life is standardised and they come from a place called Generica”
“When you turn your heart and your life over to Christ, when you accept Christ as the savior, it changes your heart. It changes your life. And that's what happened to me.”
“Brittany was a vibrant and charming young woman with a great outlook on life. She should have lived to be a mother; a grandmother and she had so much vitality to give to others. She was always smiling and bubbly and full of life.”
“[·] The Undercoverling, ... Blowing My Cover: My Life as a CIA Spy.”
“In an artwork you're always looking for artistic decisions, so an ashtray is perfect. An ashtray has got life and death.”
“He moved to Florida to start a new life.”
“He's interested in not just your baseball career, but he's also interested about your life. He seems like a really good guy. I'm just going to love working with him. That type of personality is just what's attractive.”
“I've never played defense in my life. I sat down with the coaches and got the rundown and they all helped me out with what to expect. It was a whole different perspective but I enjoyed it.”
“50-50. It may be time to get on with the rest of my life.”
“We really wanted to show them this other side of life.”
“Being in the infantry is hard on family life. I want to get married someday and I want to be around for my family.”
“the kind of man you were, how you lived your life, what kind of lawyer you were, not your allegiance to a particular cause.”
“In the past days I had to come to the toughest decision in my life, which was to follow my doctors' urgent advice to step down from my position as the leader of the Social Democrat Party in Germany.”
“It's good to have a shake-up every now and then. That's life.”
“You hear it all the time, but your life can change in a split second. Those words don't sink in until your life actually does change in a split second.”
“Not racing is not an option. I didn't work my whole life to say, 'Maybe next time.”
“We had a dream life in Africa.”
“Outside of my father, he was probably the most influential male in my life.”
“Outside my father, he's probably the most influential male in my life. He's a special, special guy.”
“Life is so fresh, life is every day so new if we are fighting, only for the best. Sometimes I think the only real satisfaction in life is failure, failure in your endeavor to do your best.”
“They're attractive, quality-of-life places and have a somewhat more diverse economic base. It's close to Chicago.”
“I'd cry. I really would. Hockey has become such a big part of my life, and I want to play in college.”
“Mortality is a proper object to invite our pity, and privation of life alone sufficient to move compassion in the living.”
“What reason then can we produce, that the life of a man whom we esteem, should be sorrow to himself, and his death be grief to us?”
“Horne, he sounds like a single issue. The issue is quality of life here. It's eroding. You've got to show you understand the people and their day-to-day lives.”
“It was the best night of my life so far.”
“The book wrestles with the questions modern mothers face about the merits of professional work versus life spent with children. It paints a picture of the trials and tribulations of 21st century motherhood.”
“It's music for anyone who likes to dance, have fun, cut loose and enjoy life. It's good honky-tonk boogie-woogie blended with Cajun, swing and other traditional songs and sounds we can't pull ourselves completely away from playing because that's what we like.”
“It seems like that way of life is being taken away. It's a different world now.”
“He had read much, if one considers his long life; but his contemplation was much more than his reading.”
“If you don't run your own life, somebody else will.”
“The essence of life is seeked through polarities such as , health and illness, happiness and suffering, wealth and poverty and so on.”
“To keep life safe,
 Be conscious of the invisible red and green signals.”
“The key to a good life is simplicity,
yet creating simplicity is so complex.”
“He said, 'Would you be interested in coming to Denver and making a new start in your life?' And I went down in tears.”
“And love can come to everyone, the best things in life are free.”
“I didn't know exactly the whole story but after hearing it, it just made you really think about life. Those kids have had it tough there and it was great to go and try to lift their spirits up.”
“We feel completely vindicated by the sentencing. This is somebody who ruins lives, he ruined my life and ruined many other people?s lives.”
“In life you must be able to discern between who and what is genuine and artificial. I always try to give people the benefit of the doubt, but I realize that you can't please everybody all of the time and that sometimes you have to just go for what you know.”
“I score many lucky goals in my football life because I am always there, trying to shoot. For me the best goals are the ones like this when the ball just crosses the line.”
“The sanctity of human life is the most dangerous sophistry ever propagated by philosophy and it is all too well rooted. Because if it means anything it means the in-sanctity of species which are not human.”
“We were both well-known, teaching, working at our professions and having a good standard of living. But then life got very violent.”
“He was kind of a larger than life feature. He's been a prominent part of the business for many, many years.”
“He had good life on his fastball today. He put guys away when he needed to. He was very aggressive. I think he's going to be good.”
“It's the proudest day in my life. I just hope that we can do the Football League justice.”
“He had many requests to have someone end his life.”
“That's what you're going to see when you turn on ESPN highlights every night, ... Or the OLN (Outdoor Life Network) highlights.”
“The meeting just changed my life completely.”
“This is the first time I've done this in my entire life. I'll be ready next year.”
“I feel great and am looking forward to picking up my life where I left off. That includes a lot of basketball and hanging out with my friends,”
“Owning the Blues has been a wonderful life experience for our family. We'll miss the thrills of arriving on game night, the big wins, the loyal fans and the best people in the world -- and that's hockey people -- the staff, players, coaches, trainers and everyone associated with the game. We fell in love with hockey and we'll always love the Blues.”
“The rebuild of No. 14, with a 20-year life expectancy, is a significant financial investment in Gary Works and a demonstration of our commitment to our customers, work force and community.”
“Much had he read, Much more had seen; he studied from the life, and in th' original perus'd mankind”
“Say that cricket has nothing to do with politics and you say that cricket has nothing to do with life.”
“We are a spectacular, splendid manifestation of life. We have language. . . . We have affection. We have genes for usefulness, and usefulness is about as close to a "common goal" of nature as I can guess at.”
“He's worked really hard and it's helped him in other places of his life and schoolwork.”
“One day out of his life, something went very, very wrong. His last words to me were at least he has two children out there.”
“I guess football's more important than a person's life to them.”
“We really wanted to make it three years in a row. But that?s life.”
“He has a lot going on upstairs. Too much, I think, ... Life is not as simple for Marat Safin as it is for a lot of other players.”
“[Japanese haiku poets found something morose in the sound, an omen of the cicada's short adult life.] In the cicada's cry, ... no sign can foretell how soon it must die.”
“Women's life expectancy in China has significantly improved in the last several decades. In 1998, women's life expectancy was 73.1 years on average, 3.7 years longer than that of men. In 2003, women's life expectancy extended to 74 years.”
“I think at a young age, there were a couple major catastrophes that happened in her life that very easily could have killed her and I think she has channeled that … Whether she realizes it or not, she has something inside her.”
“It's more about life than death. It's not a scary piece ? it's a joyful one. When I was working on it, I was thinking about when you look in Easter eggs or the 'I Dream of Jeannie' bottle.”
“He trusts me with his clubs because I've played with him my whole life. I know how far he hits it. Around here it's just tough with which way the wind is blowing. Usually we're pretty consistent with our club selection. But he does most of the reads.”
“There's not too many times in life you control your own destiny and these kids can definitely compete for the state title.”
“(Performing live) invigorates you, but life on the road wears you down. The frequencies hitting your ears and the volume can tire you, but you're so elated onstage you don't notice it. The next morning you implode. You do five gigs in a row, have a day off, then seven in a row, day off -- it's a strange kind of torture. You love it, but it destroys you.”
“I know the guilt I live (with) every day of my life is nothing compared to the grief of the Baker family.”
“It's obvious to me it's possible to have a device like this and have a good quality of life, ... It does not seem too cumbersome.”
“We just want to go back to some semblance of a normal life that everybody else has.”
“That was her life, her children and her God.”
“This was the most difficult time in my life.”
“I must now focus on rebuilding my private life.”
“Even though the economy is doing well, for the low-skilled life is difficult as Hong Kong transforms to a more high-value-added economy.”
“There is a very big change from the life of a student to this.”
“The Chinese nation has always pursued a life in harmony with other nations despite differences,”
“Marty has obviously learned as he has gone along, and sometimes life lessons are the best training. What is the required learning for a general manager? It's a different route he has taken, but he's obviously been successful with what he's done.”
“Basketball is not life, it's a job. It puts everything in perspective when you see something like that.”
“It's just a different chapter in my life.”
“It?s a game of life expectancy.”
“It was kind of a starting point of realizing what life was about.”
“You've got to take what life throws at you. Some of it's crappy and some of it's not. Scott got cancer and he just took it the best he could, and he had friends to back him up and help him along with it.”
“It's a life sport. When you get ready to go - when that gate opens - there's a rush.”
“He's without a doubt the No. 1 male in my life, ... I was a longtime minor leaguer going nowhere. I could do a lot of things like run, throw and field, but I was afraid of the curveball. ... He made me a switch-hitter.”
“The engines for growth are not only early-stage life science and information technology, but additions and expansion, taking existing companies to a hundred employees and more.”
“It is a partnership with Rick Warren, who wrote 'The Purpose Driven Life,' ... I did a concert live at their church and they're partnering with me to put the CD out.”
“You have no idea how life-giving it is to find around one a youth that agrees not to bury one on the spot.”
“I may have turned several shades of red. I was looking to Coach Koetter to throw me a life preserver, ... I'll be ready at some point, but give me a chance; I've been a little busy.”
“How do you explain it? A dog saves your life. How do you explain that? You don't, My Norwegian Elkhound is smarter than your honor student!”
“It is a fact that not once in all my life have I gone out for a walk. I have been taken out for walks; but that is another matter.”
“Great men are but life-sized. Most of them, indeed, are rather short.”
“This is a real-life example of some of the problems with the Medicare Part D system. This shows how the program doesn't do enough to bring down the cost of drugs, which too often are prohibitively expensive.”
“In Pennsylvania, Gov. Tom Ridge has created an exciting outreach program focusing on dads and their contribution to family life,”
“With new lighting last season, new fencing work this year and several promotional projects coming to life, we are thrilled to finally be opening the doors for the 2006 season. The response from fans, drivers and sponsors has been tremendous, and we can't wait to drop that first green flag this Friday.”
“Most life sciences companies require significant and unique infrastructure to develop their products. Through this development, the state of Georgia and Georgia Tech have continued to support the important contributions life sciences make to the economy of the state and for that we are sincerely grateful.”
“Jacob crashing today is really tragic. He was in the shape of his life and now has to see the whole thing go down the drain, because one of the drivers didn't adhere to the regulations. He has every reason to be absolutely furious, especially after all he's been through to get back on this level.”
“My life has been a continuous fulfillment of dreams. It appears that everything I saw and did has a new, and perhaps, more significant meaning, every time I see it. The earth is good. It is a privilege to live thereon.”
“This is the happiest moment in my life. I am so happy.”
“I'm not willing to say I want to return to private life because I'm too old to begin telling lies now.”
“I think Dob has spent a good portion of his life here, ... and he was just anxious to spend time with his family and see what is out there for him.”
“...at the end of the day ... coming home to family and friends ... having a decent life.”
“I always wondered about my grandfather's story. What was his life really like as a young man?”
“That was my first technical in my life, I never disrespect anyone.”
“My life is very unglamorous, ... I have twin sons, they're 20 months old, they run me into the ground. I write in my sweats. It's a very simple life. There'd be no reason for me to be a diva. That's funny.”
“[In Overdosed America, Dr. Abramson cites CDC data indicating that over the course of the past 100 years, life expectancy has increased by a remarkable 30 years. Yet according to the CDC report quoted by Abramson,] 25 years of this gain are attributable to advances in public health. ... These include improvements such as sanitation, clean food and water, decent housing, good nutrition, higher standards of living, and widespread vaccinations.”
“We did everything together. I was holding him the last three hours of his life.”
“Today begins a new saga in my life which I expect to strengthen me and allow me time for reflection, ... I plan to write music while in prison, read and pray regularly and will come out a stronger, more confident woman.”
“Throughout my life, I have always lived with adversity and will continue to have faith and do good for my family, friends and fans.”
“We'll have 40 percent of the teaching force replaced by mid-career switchers and people with life experience, people with altruistic motives for coming into teaching.”
“Ah, dearer than my soul. Dearer than light, or life, or fame.”
“While some no other cause for life can give ,but a dull habitude to live.”
“God gave us this technology, God gave us Adam and God gave Molly her second chance at life, and to us that was what was morally and ethically right.”
“People always want black and white. It really simplifies life. Then they can add some color and make the look their own. I always design clothing to wear for many seasons.”
“Life is a full meal.”
“I've been playing basketball since I was a little kid. It's always been a big part of my life. My initials are underneath it because it signifies that I have been playing basketball since I was six years old.”
“It's become our life. When we talk, it's always about work. ... We do have our own personalities and interests. But career-wise, we always wanted to do it together.”
“We came up short but like I've always said, everything doesn't always go your way in life.”
“The car will never be driven. But hopefully, in my life, I'll be able to go back and touch this car and feel the pope's spirit.”
“I'm never going to forget this the rest of my life, man. That's all I can say.”
“It's not a bad life. You have to watch your back, and the bugs will carry you away some nights but nobody bothers us out here.”
“However, Friedan acquired the leadership experience, confidence, toughness and passion that would carry her through the rest of her life.”
“They were worried about change to the social life.”
“His life and accomplishments continue to inspire Rensselaer students, Rensselaer faculty, Rensselaer staff and the entire Rensselaer family. And we are very honored to have the recognition for him in proximity to the campus where he began is illustrious career.”
“[Working with Scorsese] was like the honor of my life, ... I'm so busy on stuff that I so believe in that it is hard to stop and smell the roses. But I love to work, I really love to work, so I'm digging it.”
“Or he wouldn't have stopped it. He would've simply adapted to the situation -- sacrificing his life as Bruce Wayne if need be -- and devoted himself full-time to his quest for justice – to being Batman.”
“Everybody has their downfalls. Everybody does things that they regret in life and he was trying to get himself together.”
“The gallery lacked, and had been very keen to acquire, a really compelling likeness of Hughes made from life. This intimate portrait is a marvelous evocation of a major poet and of a fascinating literary relationship.”
“[But Wilma still could] cause tremendous damage and loss of life if we're not careful, ... The storm surge and the wave action will be tremendous with this hurricane, given the intensity and the size.”
“The most important race of his life is coming up in a couple of days, and he's talking about what he can do to give back. I was so humbled to meet such a person.”
“That wasn't her job in the first place. She signed her face away, she didn't sign her life away. She didn't suggest she was going be a role model.”
“I still am constantly about to pick up the phone and call Pamela. I valued her life, not so much mine.”
“My body has gone into things and done things that I never would have imagined ever in life.”
“When it [war] starts killing people and maiming people and you experience it, life is never light again. I agonize for the kids there now.”
“I'm still a bit in awe over it. You spend your life working toward a goal, and it's a gratifying feeling when you know you've reached it.”
“While this loss of life exceeded that of the Oklahoma City bombing, it is very remarkable that it was not worse.”
“This will cause extreme damage and if we're not careful, loss of life.”
“The timing is certainly working in our favor, ... that potential for large loss of life.”
“The greatest catch of my life. That catch makes it worthwhile, thinking about all the time we put in during the summer.”
“Every aspect of their life, including their social interaction, is threatened. Their whole life changes: their memory, problem solving skills, speech, swallowing, not to mention all the physical things, like paralysis, that affect them.”
“Civilization is built on a number of ultimate principles...respect for human life, the punishment of crimes against property and persons, the equality of all good citizens before the law...or, in a word justice.”
“Every aspect of her life is being tracked right now to try to track her whereabouts, ... We just don't know. Right now there is no connection to mail.”
“The rational basis behind the prohibition on termination of pregnancy is the preservation of potential human life, ... With an anencephalic fetus, there is no life. Therefore, it's irrational, and I would say cruel, to apply the restriction in a case like Jane Doe's. This is about the government making this principle that is irrational and tragic.”
“I hope that even in your new life you will continue to be a good member of society while looking after your household.”
“Susan Polk defended her life against a vengeful, aggressive man who was also her husband.”
“Until we see better price action or the market shows signs of life, I expect people to sit on the sidelines. We're just not there.”
“People should always have something which they prefer to life.”
“He had a life in which trauma existed. I can appreciate the guilt felt by the accused for the disappearance of his sister: 'had I gone with, this would not have happened'.”
“I love the guy, that guy is awesome. I never played for a coach like that in my whole life. . . . I'm just happy he's happy. If he's happy, I'm happy.”
“The rabbi had just said in his sermon that you never know, in one moment your life can change,”
“I think I could handle that for the rest of my life.”
“I never in my life thought I would be getting help from the Red Cross myself.”
“At the time it was probably the biggest event of my life. Dad says the barrel of my shotgun was drawing big circles, and my eyes were huge when the bird was coming in.”
“Despite the malicious fallacies put forth by Life and Style magazine, the couple is looking forward to a long and happy life together as a family.”
“For his entire adult life, John Roberts has been a disciple of and promoted a political and legal ideology that is antithetical to an America that embraces all, including lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people. I have no doubt he's an accomplished lawyer and an affable dinner companion, but that doesn't make him any less a mortal danger to equal rights for gay people, reproductive freedom and affirmative action.”
“He said it was because he wanted to be in control of his life and he wanted to live or die on his own terms instead of his captors'.”
“She's very disciplined and very organized in the way she works on her golf game and runs her whole life. She's always been a hard worker, but she's able to get the most out of that work. She sets her goals and doesn't give up until she reaches them.”
“Our kids spend more time today learning about life through media than from any other source. They spend twice as much time in front of the television as they do in front of a school teacher.”
“I never got ran past like that in my life.”
“These bacteria had a defect that we didn't anticipate. I've never been so happy in my life to be wrong.”
“Honestly, this is funny. It's the funniest damn thing I've seen in my life.”
“It hasn't been anything that's jeopardized life. They're out away from schools. They've all happened early, early in the morning.”
“The [parish] took the full force of the storm surge, so there was a significant loss of [human] life, plus a fuel spill from a refinery.”
“I look at past work as completed, although I'm pleased that each of the pieces seems to have a life of its own and that the issues are still relevant.”
“We don't have unlimited capacity. We are trying to take in only those patients with life-threatening illnesses.”
“Even though I didn't become famous like I wanted, I still love life and people. I have millions of friends.”
“He's a living legend, for sure. He's larger than life to a lot of people, myself included.. .. I don't think it's out of line to call him the best of all time.”
“I consider this a celebration. He led a great life.”
“My whole life revolved around how much weight I could lift,”
“I'm going to miss the job. When something's been a part of your life for so many years and now all of a sudden you're not doing it anymore, of course you're going to miss it.”
“Hurricanes are a way of life for us.”
“I just adore him, ... He follows his heart. He must be pretty smart in business. He loves his life and that's a wonderful thing to see. So many people are the beneficiaries of his passion, his love for this music. I don't think there's another festival like this in the world.”
“You've got to keep things in perspective. Sure, I've been training for this my whole life, but I'm just a guy skating around in tights. It's not that big a deal.”
“The Villages Relay for Life is one of the bigger relays. It speaks volumes of The Villages residents and their passion of banding together and giving back to something that helps so many others. I'm truly amazed by the residents and their giving hearts.”
“Everybody, ... gets kind of touched by this in some realm of their life.”
“My sister was an amazing woman who had made decisions her entire life, and she deserved to make this decision as well.”
“The Paradise Forests of Asia Pacific are brimming with unimaginable diversity of life. But these forests and the life they support are being destroyed faster than any other on Earth, driven by demand for timber in Europe, US, Japan and China.”
“[Why did these strangers embrace her when her mother could not? At Planned Parenthood, she had met pro-life parents who supported abortions for their daughters.] Everyone has an exceptional case when confronted with difficult situations in life, ... That's what love is.”
“By God's grace and his spirit and power, ... there is a way to live a life that is not [as a homosexual]. If I was born predisposed to kill or lie or embezzle, I have the obligation to myself to overcome that, because it's not in the interest of the common good.”
“This is the Pro Football Hall of Fame, not the Life Hall of Fame.”
“The goal of ensuring Chinese people a relatively comfortable life would not be achieved if we had 400 million more people.”
“I'd heard rumors that he'd lost his job and had try to take his life before, maybe he was trying to make it successful, I'm not sure.”
“Just as Batman won't take another life to achieve his own ends, it makes sense to me that he wouldn't condone altering someone's consciousness – another way of taking someone's life – for the same reason.”
“They self-soothe. But gradually they'll accommodate for what real life is.”
“I don't feel 'funny' inside when I'm this hobo character. I'm a misfit (as Weary Willie). Life is passing me by. Maybe it's Willie's attempt at a little dignity in spite of everything that tickles folks.”
“It will breath some life into the south side of town.”
“It's one thing to take a life. But to do it in such a fashion, and then to set the car ablaze so that the remains were unrecognizable, that's horrific.”
“That's the first time we played on separate teams. Just growing up, the first 18 years of your life with your twin brother and then you're separated, it is different.”
“It's probably the most important work I've ever done, ... My father was at the very last part of his life diagnosed with Alzheimer's.”
“He was in and out of her life.”
“It was an interesting evening. There were a lot of confusing moments where I thought that parts of my life that were long over were still going on.”
“That was the longest minute of my life. Adrian did a great job of coaching in the last stretch. We were just lucky to have the ball at the end.”
“I'm really proud of Nick because he just wrestled the tournament of his life. Last year, he was this pudgy kid who never could crack the lineup. We saw flashes of greatness from him during the regular season and now he just keeps plugging away in the tournaments.”
“It's not going to keep me from my athletic goals and my life goals. One of them is being an Olympian. So I'll definitely be back.”
“How often do people adopt 11-year-old troubled boys? ... When he was adopted, his life opened up. ... If that hadn't happened, Gumby probably would have never happened.”
“You could see the muscle and it was the worst hockey cut I've ever seen in my life. It was a tough thing to look at.”
“This is really beyond a field of dreams. It's a field of life.”
“Obviously, Miami is a different way of life than New York. My grittier street songs are definitely influenced by New York. Just driving down the Bronx in my old neighborhood can inspire me every day. You never know what you are going to see or hear. I can't really say there is one thing that most inspires me from New York. But the city as a whole always gives me material to write about.”
“It is deeply revolting that an innocent life is threatened.”
“It's important to look at the all the fees the general partner is going to be charging over the life of the fund.”
“I don't mean finding 15 different ways to swing from a chandelier. But novelty in life drives up peoples sense of well being.”
“My weekend was probably the best weekend of my life. It couldn't have been any better than this, to watch my son and my daughter come one and two.”
“I have worked all my life, wanted to work all my life, needed to work all my life.”
“Tom kept saying: 'This is the happiest day of my life!'”
“The ones who are serving life sentences are victims.”
“Look, I'm an easy mark, ... But was 'You Light Up My Life' a vanity production? No one thought I could do that, either. I only got to do it because my investment adviser had put me in cattle the year before and all the cattle died. He felt guilty so he raised the money for the film. Even when it was done, nobody wanted it. I finally had to go to Columbia and say: 'You've got to put out this film. You simply have to.' ”
“If it hits, it could be quite destructive to your life for a long time. Identity theft is not a picnic, but it is repairable.”
“I just decided that I would not put my professional life on hold to raise children. I know that sounds selfish to a lot of people and I don't know if what I'm doing is the right thing. But that's the way I'm doing it.”
“Sanctuary is not going to be a place of doom. It will be a place of life and living.”
“In the name of the sacred respect of life under Islam and of all humanitarian principles, we appeal to the humanity of the kidnappers for them to save the life of this Frenchman.”
“The seconds you're saving by speeding or going round someone aren't worth a human life.”
“In My Life,”
“Wisconsin Democrats are focused on making life more affordable for our middle-class families, so they can pay for their health care, have a good-paying job and send their kids to college. Whether it is our schools, health care, jobs, energy costs, or the ongoing war in Iraq, one thing is clear: When it comes to these priorities, Democrats are on the side of Wisconsin families.”
“Your life gets geometrically worse the more you travel for business. The truth is that you often end up eating a bad hamburger after a long day of travel--that's if you're lucky enough to find room service open after 11 p.m. A child would only be an unwanted distraction.”
“Lifestyle is changing, with greater emphasis on context. It used to be that location defined work and home life. That no longer applies. Even people that work in an office sometimes take work at home.”
“OK, whatever it takes for you guys to continue publicizing my stupid life and terrible music.”
“Our target is women who really seem serious about making a change in their life.”
“Life without passion would be a dull wasteland of neutrality, cut off and isolated from the richness of life itself.”
“because I'm trying to live a Christian life and I want to do that for what happened with him but I've had some dark hours. It has completely destroyed me physically and mentally.”
“Thank you ... I'm so grateful you're allowing me to be here. Thank you for sparing my life.”
“That ['Stop Snitching'] video just glamorizes thug life.”
“The Nubians are living a more natural life so we wanted to give them that natural look. We used a lot of earth tones and used actual fishnets for their tops.”
“He was a great player in our league, and he's really been married to this organization his whole adult life. He's a great supporter of our players, of the organization.”
“He's a fighter. He's fighting right now for his life, and he's not going to give up. He's going to go down kicking. Our thoughts and prayers are with him right now.”
“No matter who you are or what you plan to do in life, learn to type!”
“My life does not suck”
“There's a lot of good eating experiences you may have had in your life that you wouldn't think were as good if you read the label.”
“It's a life-changing event. It really humbles you. I've seen a lot of god-awful stuff, but nothing even close to this.”
“He told me state is one of the greatest experiences of your life and that when his team won it he was shocked. ... I just want to experience that. It's every kid's dream to get to the state finals.”
“The wholesome stuff that we do is boring to you guys. But that is life.”
“I decided I'd had enough. I want to have a normal life, and this is a perfect fit. I love it.”
“I was a little nervous at first. I never played reggae music in my life.”
“Emily told me after the race that this was the best experience of her life. But that's because of what her performance meant to the team. Everybody made a contribution tonight and either swam their season-best or career-best times.”
“We don't know what our defense will be. This case is life-consuming.”
“We played really good in this game. Our bats came back to life after the struggle we had against Samson.”
“Our life is taking care of him. That's what it's all about now.”
“This ain't no . . . circus. This is my life they're talking about.”
“Life is all about rides. This is something I've always wanted. There have been hard bumps in the road that have got me down, but never got me off track. I'm just blessed.”
“[Nov. 28:] Today ... Saving Your Life: Modern Medical Miracles.”
“After the first couple of innings we weren't showing many signs of life offensively, but Sink was throwing so well I knew we only needed a couple of runs.”
“I made a terrible and foolish mistake that I will regret for the rest of my life. I take full responsibility for my actions and did not appeal my suspension. I apologize to the fans, the game, my family and all those people that I let down. I am truly sorry and deeply regret my terrible lapse in judgment.”
“I made a terrible and foolish mistake that I will regret for the rest of my life.”
“The real art is bringing (each dummy) to life. The whole purpose is to make the people connect with that character. Not for them to see if your mouth is moving.”
“I don't ever in my life remember going into any game feeling like I was an underdog. I certainly have never experienced that at Michigan.”
“They were more concerned with saving life than putting it on paper.”
“I've lived in South Carolina my entire life, I grew a family-owned business here, and I'm proud to assume a role where I can make a difference in raising income levels and creating opportunities for our state.”
“Dad wasn't a daredevil, but he lived his life to the fullest.”
“A lot of things have changed in my life. Drew and I are really close. I'm glad we get to work together now.”
“I'm at peace with myself and with where my life is at this point. There were a lot of positives [about his managerial days]. More than anything, I think about the opportunity to manage a major-league club that Mr. [Kevin] McClatchy and Mr. [Cam] Bonifay gave me.”
“This movie's really about someone who's opening up a new chapter in their life.”
“I didn't start really making changes in my life until I was actually in my mid-20s. And all of a sudden I was like, wait a minute. I was trying so hard to be what I thought I was supposed to be, instead of just allowing myself to be what I-what I was or what I am.”
“Bill Campbell has a life of public service; he wanted to make a difference. From early in his life, he wanted to make this world [a better place], regardless of your race. He wanted all people to be treated equally.”
“Mickey Mouse... is always there-he's part of my life. That really is something not everyone can call their claim to fame.”
“The life of wild animals is a struggle for existence. The full exertion of all their faculties and all their energies is required to preserve their own existence and provide for that of their infant offspring.”
“He's the joy of my life. I've had horses since I was 2, and I've never had a horse that's been ... attached to me like he is.”
“The high loss of life suggests the police acted with extreme brutality … A police force acting responsibly would not have allowed such a tragedy to occur.”
“The buildings and workers comp will jack up the total costs from this event. The loss of life is incalculable.”
“People say that the fight for equality is a marathon. The Gay Games brings that to life, ... Our goal is equality. Like any athlete knows, the harder you work, the closer you are to reaching your objective. As we look back at our progress since the 1994 New York Gay Games, we mark the return of the games to the United States with an even stronger commitment to the future fight. HRC is proud to play a partner role in helping the Gay Games change the world for the better.”
“They not only wanted your money, they also wanted your life.”
“I'm happy for the girls. A state championship is something you can take with you the rest of your life. They've worked very hard for this, and I'm very happy for them.”
“The way I feel now, I'm 45 years old and I have a new life. I feel reborn. I'm alive again.”
“the Palestinian tendency to commit suicide is now showing itself in its political life.”
“The sport has pretty much taken over my life. I love it because you're not competing with anyone but yourself.”
“He was slow to make friends. But when he made friends they were friends for life. In fact, they still come every year on his birthday. They come to the house and we have a cookout and a party and we go to the cemetery.”
“In every possible way you can never imagine how your life is changed, your holidays have changed, your everyday life has changed, how you respond to people, how you look at people.”
“We know college life. And it's hard not to like a show with a priest.”
“He was two seconds off some of the best swimmers in the state in the biggest meet of his life.”
“I just adore her work. It's the subtle way she has of talking about the entirety of a life and the strange moments a life suddenly pivots upon. ... She's just a genius.”
“No Lease on Life.”
“Our hope is to somehow take King off the pages of history books and somehow bring him to life in a way that people will find compelling.”
“The so-called right-to-life movement in the United States has expanded its agenda way beyond the original focus on abortion. Given the political power of religious conservatives, the impact a whole range of patient services could be in danger.”
“I stand to make more money doing that sequel than I've ever made in my life,”
“It doesn't feel like a long time to me. My life is full. I have new priorities. I've been working a long time, so now I do movies for a different reason than I did for much of my career.”
“They're not your movie star; they're not your big names. ... There's something about their work and their inner life that I just love and am so attracted to.”
“Being an African-American woman, I'd been faced with some ugly (racial) things in my life. When I went there, the home was so bright, and it was cheerful. It was amazing. The mother was 100-percent devoted, and the father, too, and the big church family. ... That was the true outreach that people imagine churches to be.”
“That's the craziest game I've played in my life. The hail, the rain and the game itself. To play on that (hail), it was gnarly. But it was a lot of fun. I'm just happy to come out on top.”
“I love what I'm doing, ... It's my life. When it's time to go, I'll probably be fighting to get out of the casket. I'll be yelling at the priest instead of a referee.”
“You have to make a big effort to try to have a life, and that's important to you only if you spent your entire childhood not having one,”
“Once I had kids, my life with them became so significant,”
“Life just doesn't hand you things. You have to get out there and make things happen. that's the exciting part.”
“He'd want us to be a working family even though he's not here, and for life to go on without him.”
“He's a man of his word. What he stands for integrity, the sanctity of marriage, pro-life he still stands for. He hasn't lowered his standards.”
“That is where I have wanted to go all my life. I have been an Auburn fan all my life. The coaches are great there and the academics are strong.”
“I prefer to commit 100 per cent to a movie and make fewer films, because it takes over your life.”
“This insect is going to be with us, and it's probably going to be a fact of life from now on. The attacks come not in ones or tens, but in thousands on a bigger tree.”
“Not only is this is a great fund-raiser for our community but, it's a once in a life time opportunity for families all over the area to come and meet Eric Crouch. People should plan to stay and meet the different athletes that we are bringing in, enjoy the food and games and stay and bid on the many unique family oriented items at the silent and live auctions. It will be a fun day for the whole family.”
“I thought it was very interesting. I liked how he used business (examples) as part of everyday life.”
“I've never grown a beard in my life. This is just a fun thing we have going. We hope we don't have to pick up a razor the rest of the year.”
“I would lovingly carry out this historic mission even if it cost me my life. If I become a national hero in America, this would be good for the Turkish people and the Turkish state.”
“He was so full of life. He was fine 10 minutes before he collapsed, having the time of his life.”
“It is not possible for me to trust my life to somebody else.”
“Hopefully they catch these guys before they ruin somebody else?s life.”
“He was at a point in his life where he was retired. And he had expressed this was the happiest point in his life.”
“It was just everything about him. What he wanted in life was the same for me ... It's hard to explain when we clicked, but it was such an awesome feeling, like you can't stop thinking about the person. I haven't had that feeling in a long time.”
“To be sure, this requires effort and love, a careful cultivation of the spiritual life, and a watchful, honest, active oversight of all one's mental attitudes towards things and people. It is not to be learned by world-flight, running away from things, turning solitary and going apart from the world. Rather, one must learn an inner solitude, where or with whomsoever he may be. He must learn to penetrate things and find God there, to get a strong impression of God firmly fixed on his mind.”
“If a human being has been created through fertilization, we think that life should be respected.”
“Children are a wonderful, wonderful gift of life. But they're also an expensive little gift.”
“I understand life and death. I had the privilege to be in war. I've seen dead bodies,”
“There is too much drama in real life, so this is a bit of an escape.”
“Those were the best times of my life. You learn a lot playing at that level and against the best softball players in the world. After all the hours of sweat and hard work, to be rewarded with that ultimate goal, it was awesome, almost like a dream really.”
“I learned it doesn't take much to brighten someone's day ? or life for that matter.”
“These two life paths are united, ... It's not two separate lives - it's one life with a new dimension.”
“It can be that some people decide that I will spend my life in Florence, Colorado,”
“life with a new dimension”
“The idea being that, over the life of the business, they make their money off software and peripherals.”
“I began asking what I was going to do with the rest of my life, ... This idea of the priesthood kept popping up.”
“No, my degree was history, not the practice of art! I can't draw to save my life you know.”
“Skating will always be a part of my life whether I am skating to compete or skating for recreation.”
“We want people to go home feeling good about life.”
“The show is about love and harmony in life.”
“Erica tragically experienced death in the early morning of life. But this was not God's will ... but the will of wrong.”
“Life itself is just a thin coat of paint on the planet, and we hold the paintbrush.”
“This was a collision of misinformation where the consequences meant life or death for the families waiting here.”
“This book is about a real-life female baseball player who struck out Babe Ruth and Lou Gehrig.”
“He gave me two minutes more with my son. He's an angel. He breathed life into him.”
“It is about people's dignity and quality of life.”
“Time is one measure of life, ... Time wasted is life wasted, time saved is life saved.”
“I have, with my clients, told them that in life, you have choices you can make. I can empathize with those clients, because I come from where they are.”
“Some men go through life absolutely miserable because, despite the most enormous achievement, they just didn't do one thing-like the architect who didn't build St Paul's. I didn't quite build St Paul's, but I stood on more mountaintops than possibly I deserved.”
“[The phrase] right to privacy ... deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due process of law.”
“If you would only recognize that life is hard, things would be so much easier for you.”
“I have more purpose in my life. I didn't think I could ever say that. Whenever people call me I go and help them. I don't charge them. I know what a broken heart is and I want to keep others from having one.”
“I think the kids are used to this by now. I think we have a normal social life. When you're parents, most of your social life and relaxation is watching your kids do things, so running is our relaxation.”
“We face tremendous challenges to our way of life, our health care system and our state budget.”
“I don't think any person who goes through a life-threatening situation or a trial of a great magnitude comes out the same.”
“It's a given that they handle life-and-death emergency calls. But they don't handle calls where somebody's going to die call after call after call. It was a kind of doomsday, sum-of-all-fears atmosphere.”
“He loved to fish. He loved the outdoors. He just loved life.”
“Everything I've learned in my life, I like to share with others, ... It's good for discipline and respect, and I think everyone needs to know how to defend themselves.”
“The Working Life: The Promise and Betrayal of Modern Work”
“Patrick has come to a point in his life where he has determined that it is important for him to return to Baltimore where he and his wife call home and expect to stay.”
“I had more calls in five minutes yesterday than I've had in my whole life.”
“A verdict of guilty means that Mr. Wilson spends the rest of his life in prison. He dies there.”
“I'm an athlete. I'd been working out all my life, so I thought, It won't affect me.”
“Steele has had a varied life. A lot of these anecdotes would serve him well if he used them.”
“They need to get a job and work like I did for most of my life.”
“My ultimate vocation in life is to be an irritant.”
“I believe the nature of the Hanna-Barbera brand will allow us to bring to life a wonderful new world of action figures, which will be embraced by collectors and fans alike. We will be utilizing the full range of McFarlane talent for this collection and applying our characteristic style and finesse to the timeless Hanna-Barbera characters.”
“It was the worst day of my life and maybe it was the greatest day.”
“Politics is a part of everyday life in Afghanistan, so I think it's not right to say that they are completely inexperienced in politics. But, yes, they are going to need a lot of support to begin with, learning their way. Some of them will be illiterate, but I'm not too worried. Leaders will emerge there pretty quick, and they'll know what they are doing. They know about politics.”
“Everyone was hoping for immediate results, but in every facet in life things grow with time. It's the same in the football program. It will get better every single week.”
“She encounters broad versions of what we all deal with in life. Good, evil, bad weather, wonderful picnics.”
“You can't grasp it. It's not life or death, but it's damn near close. You invest so much into this program and the winning, to have a loss in your home stadium in front of your family, in front of your friends, it hurts.”
“The CUD is responsible for the damage and loss of life that has occurred in the capital in the last three days,”
“I'm afraid it's going to be a fact of life, and will be quite a few years before this effect will be remedied.”
“When you run that baseline when it's a dead ball, you give a team life.”
“He's been through so much that he needs stability in his life. He's a bundle of joy.”
“Sept. 11, so many things happened that year. This game isn't life or death, but I definitely remember sitting in my room with my old roommate, Ingle Martin, putting everything in perspective.”
“One thing viewers will be reminded of, the stakes are very high on this island. It's always life and death. They may have been lulled into a sense of security in the past few episodes. That may change again soon.”
“I basically had the best spring of my life. I was brought in and knew who my competition was. And I have confidence in myself to go out and play the game and I did it. I basically did everything I was asked and, obviously, it wasn't enough.”
“You've got to realize that any lady on a soap is devoting her life to it, 24/7.”
“All of us, all of us, people from many faiths, have been touched by Tom's life and his death.”
“In essence, his life as he knew it was turned upside down.”
“Relay For Life brings the progress against cancer to the forefront. Many participants are our family, friends and neighbors who have dealt with cancer themselves. Their involvement is proof of the progress that has been not only reducing death rates, but also in the quality of life following cancer treatment.”
“I'm really going to miss everybody. It's like a family there. I love them, but that's life, I guess.”
“I'm so happy, because we have what we were looking for. With Preval, we'll have security, jobs and life will get back to normal.”
“He is a very strong guy, a game guy. He is fighting for the opportunity of his life. I got hit but weathered the storm.”
“Last year was huge. It's probably the biggest fundraiser we've ever done for the Family Life Center. We raised about $4,000.”
“This program will be an incredible beginning in the life of the Holland Performing Arts Center. With a focus on Omaha, we've designed an evening incorporating outstanding local artists and ensembles along with national touring artists, with something for everyone to enjoy.”
“In our opinion, there is no limit on her life.”
“There is a gulf between the high value Americans put on life in theory and its cheapness in practice.”
“About the confusion, I can't tell you of anything more heart-wrenching than I've ever gone through in my life. Nothing.”
“Any voices or fantasies, he lives with. Those are his everyday life things.”
“In the life of this wonderful Capitol, this is the first time that it was done right, ... It was done exactly the way it was supposed to be done.”
“It was amazing to hear from and about different people from different walks of life and the impression she left upon them. All her work they're studying now is a part of history.”
“Who saw life steadily, and saw it whole: / The mellow glory of the Attic stage.”
“He is still the same manipulative person who has used the system, and it dishonors the life of my father and the life of Jackie Pigott.”
“Now that he is again behind bars, that is where he should stay for the rest of his life.”
“They get life [in prison], and [under Scottish law] life is 20 to 30 years,”
“(I) just had to show there's life in the old dog yet. (You) don't have to go out and shoot me.”
“It is imperative that local officials in this troubled and lawless region act swiftly to save the life of this brave journalist.”
“Improvement is evident in life expectancy, child mortality and illiteracy (in China). These all constitute advances in realizing economic and social rights.”
“It's just time for another change, for me to start my life over. I have a job and a couple of offers. The money's nice. People like me, treat me right.”
“It would be an ideal location for the LIFE Program.”
“I know there's not usually second acts in American life, so it's nice to have a second plot. The first plot was alright, but this current plot, the kind of slow climb, is what we always wanted to do. We just kind of got swept up in another thing for a couple years.”
“I should choose to be happy. You can choose; you can just throw a switch since, your whole life, it?s just in your brain anyway. It?s just your perception of it.”
“Basically, screaming is a part of a new up-and-coming generation of real-life rock'n'rollers where passion and sincerity and reality is absolutely necessary and required. I don't want to see them damage their vocal cords.”
“Nothing's too big, nothing's too pretentious in size. It conveys a certain attitude about life - at least we hope it does.”
“You just don't think about how much this changes your life.”
“I look at these trips as a major life-changing event. I think he knows that he's having an impact, and that's part of why he does this.”
“We are Latinos, and every Latino is an immigrant. We're looking for a new life. We're in the United States, and we're really proud.”
“You have to make difficult choices in your life, and you just have to be happy with them.”
“For the average person, these life cycle funds are an excellent option.”
“For the average person, these life cycle funds are an excellent option.”
“That's just how it works in our sport. The quicker you accept that, the easier life will be.”
“Life isn't one straight line. Most of us have to be transplanted, like a tree, before we blossom.”
“My whole life, my mother told me I would have SAG to fall back on. When I see a woman in her mid-40s or mid-50s working, I know it makes things better for me.”
“She has lived the most remarkable life, as the brilliant performer the world came to know when she was just a child, to the dedicated public servant who has served her country both at home and abroad for 30 years.”
“I can think of no one more deserving of this year's SAG Life Achievement award than Shirley Temple Black,”
“Despite the drought, floods and freezes, they come back every spring, and because of experiences in my life, that's been meaningful to me, ... In some way, no matter what tragedies befall us, God will allow us to bloom again.”
“For a time period during my life, I didn't know whose life I was trying to live ? my mother's or mine. There is a lot to be learned by everyone, and so I began researching.”
“Comic characters have to have some kind of life breathed into them, and I'm never exactly sure how that's done, but you can tell when it works and when it doesn't. There's nothing worse than looking at a comic when somebody doesn't have that. It's like looking at store windows or something.”
“This program is all about giving our kids a healthy start in life. We hope that, by pursuing this option, we'll be able to insure more kids for fewer dollars.”
“I would say the benefits are not just in the classroom, but in life. The number one benefit is working as a team.”
“Those familiar with the launch business will know that countdown scrubs are a way of life.”
“The 'lighter' side of life deserves to be taken seriously when considering the facilitation of human success and development.”
“They had a very simple life. We never had much money. Mom helped him and they were always involved in God's work.”
“He's full of life, doesn't like to be in that room too much. He's always full of energy. I wish I had his energy.”
“It's hard to swallow because we're worried it will happen to us, ... These guys have put their life on the line with the fire department. This is a brotherhood, and we don't want to see them suffer.”
“It started when I raced in the Long Beach Celebrity Grand Prix. It changed my life. Racing proved to me that, even if I start with baby steps, I can learn to do anything.”
“We've really been watching this deer for some time. And our feelings are she deserves to live her life peacefully, like anyone else, and she couldn't have done anything to anyone to deserve being shot.”
“Coming from public schools all my life, I thought that we shouldn't have to allow the recruiters on campus. But now is does sort of make sense to me that if we're taking government money we should at least allow the recruiters on campus.”
“This life isn't bad for a first draft”
“I was like, what the hell is my life coming to? I'm a trained actor! I've done Shakespeare and here I am having farting contests with an imaginary dog!”
“This is not a project, but an ongoing mode of operation or way of life. We plan to continually look at different issues and build the knowledge into the data warehouse to help us act more strategically.”
“When you think about a partner in your life, you hope that you have someone who will love you unconditionally and truly my husband does.”
“This isn't about money. My future is about life. It's just simply about life.”
“You met them, and in minutes you felt like you knew them your whole life.”
“When a bomb ripped through my clinic I almost lost my life. I will never be the same.”
“We wanted to go out and help the people, but it was too life-threatening.”
“I caught a wave that was like one of the best waves I've ever caught in my life. It was perfect, and I just had it beautifully like the whole way.”
“People from different walks of life, especially the policemen, should learn from his spirits.”
“It allows you to take a slice of your life off of your PC without thinking about it, and effortlessly sync back.”
“We're just trying to piece together the last few days, hours of this woman's life. [The former doctor] is a person of interest at this point. We would like to speak to him about the fact we found a dead body in his house.”
“seen a lot of things that will haunt me the rest of my life.”
“It's a good start on a new life. I can raise my kids until they are big and they can have their whole house to themselves.”
“People keep talking about walks but I've walked people my whole life. I don't get frustrated, I just try to throw strikes.”
“I worked in restaurants and did what I needed to do to act. Theatre is a hard life. It sucks a lot of time, and you're rejected a lot. For six years, I acted for free. Now I make a living acting, but I think there are only five percent of us who can do that. I'm ready to try more.”
“He told us that he…basically…didn't want to spend the rest of his life in jail,”
“I play- it's kind of like a slice-of-life, LA women in their forties, playing forty kind of what's their friendship like, and what's their life like and so I just play one of the four friends.”
“I look at it as something I'll look back on my whole life and how we all kicked butt.”
“Life events may force you to rethink that plan, ... Don't rethink your plan based on what's happening on the market.”
“We believe in the dignity of every life, the possibility of every mind, the divinity of every soul, ... This is our true North.”
“I've fallen in love maybe five times in my life. But it's a long life. I do get crushes. Whether it's men or women or babies.”
“I really believe the way we've played on the offensive end has really taken the life out of us defensively. This has been my biggest pet peeve about basketball in today's time. It seems to be when players aren't scoring, their energy and life to play the total game isn't there. I think that has hurt us defensively.”
“They say any time you catch the flu it's the sickest you've ever been in your life. I can speak to that. It's the truth.”
“They saved my life that day. By all rights they should have killed me that day.”
“I love Bob Huggins. He was like a father to me. We had several life-changing talks about decisions I've made.”
“I never have seen such filth in my life,”
“He was a poet who serendipitously wandered into public life.”
“If life throws you a lemon - make lemonade.”
“For us to show the signs of life and energy and passion and defense, that's what we needed. I think you go through some stretches where the season can beat you down a little bit. I think it's naive to think this conference can't do that to you.”
“I had never collected a royalty check in my life and I didn't expect to get one for `Primary Colors,'”
“There was a time when I didn't think I'd go into the family business. But this is my life. And being out here, that's definitely my lifestyle.”
“Someone's life really does depend on it.”
“[To find the characters who drive the narrative of] Denison, ... Life in a Small Town.”
“I'm not channeling anyone in particular, ... I just imagine myself living a life that I never live. I don't have the executive gene.”
“They're showing signs of life, but I would caution investors not to get too swept away.”
“I won't ever encourage this temptress to grow. I don't give her any opportunity in my life, but I'm sure it's there. I understand her.”
“We were so up high that we were really close to heaven, and that does render greater meaning to life.”
“The boy faced consecutive life sentences if he had gone to trial and had been found guilty. The proof was overwhelming. I've had this case since December and I've gone over everything. This was the only professional and ethical thing to do.”
“A group called Rosetta Life, that sends artists out to hospices in England, came to talk to me in February 2003. I lost my partner of 22 years in November 2002, so I was really in my grieving process - I still am - but I was thinking of nothing but impermanence then.”
“For three years, I've tried to encourage them to play within their personalities. They see life as alive and full speed, and we've tried not to box 'em up.”
“The Christian Mission does well ... and they have helped lots of homeless people. But the New Life Program cannot go on out there where we live ... I have thought hard about it, prayed hard about it, and talked to my grandfather about it. We cannot have this in our neighborhood.”
“The three most important entities in a child's life are - in this order - parents, the church and the school,”
“made an enormous mistake in my life: I took steroids while in the minor leagues.”
“I've never had a humble opinion in my life. If you're going to have one, why bother to be humble about it?”
“Never in my life have I ever been accused of not talking. Dan and I both ad lib. Neither one of us can keep our mouth shut.”
“She had the brashness of her comedy, but in her personal life there was such a sweetness. Sweetness, that's what I remember about her,”
“To a life that seizes/ Upon content,/ Locality seems/ But accident.”
“loving women of a certain age in movies and in life.”
“America doesn't reward people of my age, either in day-to-day life or for their performances.”
“You can make life a little more difficult for somebody here than other places. If you keep them behind, you can make life miserable for them.”
“My life goal was for me to reach out to the needy,”
“This is obviously the biggest thing sports wise. But it's not the biggest thing in my life and I realize that. I realize more that family is the most important thing. I learned a lot about myself. I became a better husband, a better father and a better person, period. I know that because that didn't kill me, I'm a strong person for it. Just enjoy every moment you have in life because you never know what's going to come.”
“Man, I don't know how it was for other comics, but that one appearance has changed my life. Everyone knows 'The Tonight Show,' no matter young or old. You don't have to beg anyone to watch ... they just turn it on.”
“The only sign of life Ryan has shown in three days is when his brother William kissed him and a tear rolled down his cheek.”
“Life can only be understood philosophically.”
“Death should not be feared. It's just the continuity of life.”
“Life is the boring bit between the hangover and the opening time.”
“That's essential. If you don't make provisions for adequate roads then it doesn't attribute to the quality of life.”
“Nobody thought she would be like she is now. She is just enjoying her life and is looking forward to going back to Mountain Ash Comprehensive school (south Wales) after Easter.”
“They're a wonderful bunch of people. These young people share the strongest passion in their life, which is music. But there's no political plan or political line. There are people who come and become more tolerant, and others come and become more intolerant. But for the time they're there and working together it is almost a utopian republic.”
“When life hands you lemons, make lemonade and lemon pie, ... That may sound trite, yet what I mean is that when something happens that takes you down a different road than you had planned, you need to take control of the situation and turn it into something positive. What may look like a catastrophe can end up being a wonderful opportunity.”
“This provides incentives for families to improve their quality of life.”
“Anyone could experience this very severe, life-threatening illness,”
“The greatest real thrill that life offers is to create, to construct, to develop something useful. Too often we fail to recognize and pay tribute to the creative spirit. It is that spirit that creates our jobs.”
“[This study] confirms that the water for life on Earth could have come from comets.”
“Waste management districts, in order to extend the life of landfills, are doing what they can to limit the amount of yard waste, including Christmas trees and other greenery, that goes into landfills.”
“This is what I know, this is what I work for my whole life. I don't want it to be taken away.”
“It's one of those things that happened by chance. It's life, but he played his cards right. When his knee went out, he stayed positive and worked even harder.”
“I think life without Coronation Street would be unthinkable. It's part of all our lives.”
“Life without hockey, I hope I don't have to face it for some time.”
“They have a thirst for life.”
“It's been a beautiful life all year because we haven't had to bring any pressure and we haven't had to force the issue.”
“I've known great art to have come out of horrible, tragic times. In his short life, Tupac went through an awful lot, and I think that's one of the reasons people call him one of the greatest of all times,”
“God opened the door. Bruce got down on his knees and invited God into his life. You could just tell when he got up he was a different person.”
“I do not interfere with your personal life domestically, and internationally, our military forces should not be interfering with foreign governments.”
“He told those kids if your sports life, your social life, and your book life -- if all those three things aren't going well -- then you're not going to have a nice time in college. But get all three in line and then college is a breeze,”
“That's enough money to really change your life.”
“That was one factor of his life, ... But I think it opens up a whole new chapter.”
“This a person who can change the life of all of us, really, in the snap of a finger, by writing one word. And it's something that Americans are not as aware of because we don't hear that much about these people. We don't see them interact.”
“But I`m hitting the ball in the middle and feel happy with my game. I`m enjoying life and want to stay in the tournament.”
“You reach a certain point in your life where they things you do and say do make a difference.”
“It is by far our largest expense . It is a huge issue. It really impacts our life in such a big way.”
“Non-toxicity is good on the manufacturing end, for users, and for the environment when the product's useful life is over.”
“It's an overall look at life the way the Book of Mormon explains it.”
“That's what I've done my whole life. I want to be down here for 10 or 20 more years.”
“For now, we have a very important — our most important — goal in our life now is to get her back.”
“Graffiti is just one of those things that destroys our quality of life, and why anybody thinks that it's funny or cute to encourage kids to go do that, I don't know. We have talked to them and asked them to not have a subway car motif to write graffiti. This is not really art or expression. This is - let's be honest about what it is - it's trying to encourage people to do something that's not in anybody's interest.”
“It's quite expensive. I've lived here all my life, and I like it the way it is.”
“It's strange how parts come along, how life lives us, and what we get to do with the abilities that are given us.”
“When you do a lot of acting your entire life, you see the entire set from one point of view. To have a chance to step back and pull it all together is really exciting. You want to do it all; you want to have a hand in everything.”
“This has been five or six years of the most difficult experience of my entire life.”
“I like to make people feel good, ... Life can be such a scramble. I hope to make at least one person in the audience happy. If one couple comes up to me and says they enjoyed the show, that's my whole night right there.”
“Enthusiasm. There is a life and a spirit about him that definitely is not here. It's going to be great to have that asset back.”
“I've loved country music my entire life. This isn't some one-off thing, because I'm briefly charmed by it. I really love this music and I really relate to it and it really calls my name and I think it sounds like Bach to me when it's done right.”
“that awareness in the multiplicity of life is inspiring and humbling.”
“The Internet is very much going to be part of a child's social life.”
“Obviously she is making that up. I swear I'm telling the truth. The last two years of my life, I don't know what to believe.”
“Let me say that of course there has been a fall in people's standard of life. And it has fallen this year and will fall again next year.”
“His whole life was his family. It's a tragic situation for everyone involved. These two young children, they have no mother, no father and no grandma.”
“I do not think that this would be the right moment to cut people's standard of life in terms of private consumption any further.”
“When you're a younger player, you can't worry about what your teammates are doing. When you're older, life slows down and you can analyze things in the big picture more, and I've decided I want to get more involved off the field with guys.”
“What about the person who has a spleen removed or an amputee. The gift of life is the greatest gift a person can give.”
“Our students will benefit from everyone's efforts. They will also get an excellent lesson in life - that when adversity strikes, you roll up your sleeves, help where you can, adjust to the changes with a positive attitude and move forward, ... That's exactly what's happening right now at Glynn Academy.”
“In other words, I've designed and redesigned my life over and over again depending upon what life has handed me,”
“She said 'we can't have everything in life.”
“The problem is trying to encapsulate 38 years of your life, of everything that has happened, the ups, the downs, the people involved,”
“This is making me, for once in my life, sit down and look at the past,”
“It's the best five years of my life. This hurts. Especially like this. It's going to sting for a while.”
“Thicket by thicket and wetland by wetland, we were losing the Greater Golden Horseshoe's remaining wilderness and diversity of life. The greenbelt is stopping the loss of natural features and the species they host.”
“I have been dreaming of playing in the National Hockey League all of my life, and to get one step closer to that goal is special.”
“He started coaching me in baseball at 12, and then started coaching me in life.”
“[Bush] reflects ... an exceptionally good work-life balance at the level he's at. When I see [Bush] walking around on his ranch, I feel comforted that I'm in better hands than if he wasn't doing that.”
“[Bush] reflects ... an exceptionally good work-life balance at the level he's at. When I see [Bush] walking around on his ranch, I feel comforted that I'm in better hands than if he wasn't doing that.”
“Bush reflects ... an exceptionally good work-life balance at the level he's at.”
“The First Amendment has the same role in my life as a citizen and a writer as the sun has in our ecosystem.”
“Bush reflects ... an exceptionally good work-life balance at the level he's at.”
“It's given new life, and of course great resources, to this fear that's hung around Washington for decades, of (Cuba) exporting revolution.”
“You better be sure. Because you are ruining someone's life if you are wrong. So you better be right.”
“These are not people who are larger than life. They took advantage of the fact that something that was unthinkable on September 10 became, unfortunately, all too thinkable on September 11.”
“To find fulfillment...don't exist with life - embrace it.”
“we are doing everything possible, as quickly as possible, to prevent further misfortune and loss of life and distress.”
“The devastation and tragic loss of life caused by Hurricane Katrina earlier this week reinforce the urgency of our coalition's work,”
“Some of the things on there were pretty frightening. It's that secret life of teens that we don't know about.”
“Bobby, I know I just shot a 72, but I've had a fantastic and rewarding life and now I'm going out to dinner with my beautiful wife Joyce. I just can't ask for anything more than that.”
“People bet all the time in every aspect of life, and most of that is legal gambling. If you're trying to say our sport has a problem with it, I don't think it does.”
“The quality of life is so high in our area. We have a lot of good things that people like for their neighborhoods ? which include relatively low crime, good schools, beautiful surroundings and we don't tax retirement. As a result, our neighbors in Maryland are moving up here.”
“it changed my writing life, and here [my daughter and I] are, working on something together.”
“She kept us in the game. I thought she really gave us some life.”
“We are looking for an ambitious family with a sincere desire to build a new life for themselves, ... We hope our success with this project will be a model for other small towns. If we all get together, we could offer at least one family a new start.”
“We are very pleased with the strong financial results for the first quarter. Our life-science business unit has shown strong growth across all of our selling sectors, including the United States, Europe and Asia.”
“She doesn't want to be different. You know, there's enough difference in her life.”
“It had to be hammered home quite a bit because I didn't see any humour in my life at all.”
“It's always a big momentum shift to give up a short-handed goal. Naturally, we showed a lot of life after that.”
“I've never written lyrics in my life. Now I'm going to have to. And I've never played the guitar and sung at the same time. But I'm going to have to learn how because that's the way we're going to do it from now on.”
“[The] legitimate office [of the human face] is to perfect the life, a legible language to those who will study it, of the majestic mistress, the soul.”
“I suppose watching her going about her life is the greatest lesson I could learn,”
“You just bounce back. It's part of life; it's part of football. You learn and you go forward. You can't dwell on the past; you can't dwell on what's happened. You put the blinders on, bring it closer together and get back to work. It's too early (to think the bottom has dropped out). If we had that attitude, we'd go 0-16.”
“It's a life-changing amount of money for a lot of people.”
“It is a valued life skill in a literate society. Handwriting is a completely and entirely human endeavor.”
“Gerry was incredibly generous with his time and knowledge, and seemed to want to share the secrets of road life with his young audience [me].”
“Life, money, love. I can comment on those things based on what I see in people's hands.”
“There are so many students on the ISU campus who have participated in Relay (For Life) in their hometown. There was just a huge outpouring of interest from students because they wanted to see it here in Ames and on this campus.”
“Colon cancer screening is probably one of the most underused ways to save one's life from cancer that exists.”
“In having this treatment and as they go through life we need to know what's happened to them.”
“Here was a rare man, who lived a rare life and showed us the way to live life at its fullest.”
“He painted, or made a lot of art. He must have had a premonition that his life was going to be a short one, and he just worked like a maniac.”
“It's better a leg than my life.”
“It comprises illusory protection for RIM and its partners and requires a lump-sum payment for the theoretical life of the patents, even though the U.S. Patent Office is expected to nullify them.”
“Matthew was a fine, loving husband, but his life was cut short.”
“He painted, or made a lot of art, ... He must have had a premonition that his life was going to be a short one, and he just worked like a maniac.”
“She had said if you live to be 21, you're going to have a good life. I guess ... that was significant.”
“Oh my word, man. It just comes to life for you as a parent. My goodness, no wonder Christmas has hung in there all these years, 'cause all these parents dig it.”
“He is a person I always trusted with my life.”
“We're here to support our troops, our president, and the mission. Nothing in life is easy and this is an example of that. We had Clinton for president for 8 years and he had the same intelligence and it took somebody with some guts to act on it. That's what President Bush did and we're here to support him.”
“I found out the hard way that life is short. I came back to Arizona and thought, the worst thing that could happen is that I would wonder what would have happened if I didn't do what I really wanted to do.”
“A lot of people let it go too long. Proper maintenance on the car is the life of the car.”
“I spent my whole life trying to play the games males play.”
“Our staged emergency turned into a real life emergency.”
“The downhill title is the biggest thing, especially in Austria. It's good for your whole life.”
“It was the most incredible period in my younger life.”
“Basically, refuse fleets try to run a vehicle until its useful life runs out. They want to run these trucks as long as they can — between seven and 12 years in most cases.”
“It was almost like somebody turned the light on. For the first time in his life, he was excited about something.”
“Those few precious minutes are the difference between life and death,”
“Each person has their own progression and own symptoms. You re-tailor your life to the reality of where you are.”
“So it's something that becomes part of their everyday life, very similar to walking down the street with somebody and talking in Spanish.”
“There is more to life than work. A hobby is a great outlet to relieve tension.”
“I don?t know, I guess life came in and put me in front of the camera before I could really make a decision about what I (wanted) but I think I probably would have gravitated to film.”
“All life is a blur of Republicans and meat.”
“Basically, I say if you're going to build a student life center, and then you don't have enough money for it ... call it something else,”
“The data that we're going to gather is key to predicting solar activity and how that affects life on Earth and astronauts in space.”
“My life would be much, much easier if I could have an hour or hour-and-a-half-long rehearsals every day after school. But it doesn't work for the kids.”
“I was struggling in my life and I didn't know where I'd go.”
“God was always very important to her. She would look to God often for her place in life and she always believed God loved every one.”
“Steroids Messed Up My Life.”
“It's the continuation of everyone's childhood to see these young children who grow up full of life, full of intelligence, full of a sense of wonder. And within an instant they're gone from this world. It's terrible.”
“This isn't a life-changing prize. It's a nice cushion.”
“Bridges are metaphors for everything in life, ... The bridge is not just about getting back and forth between north and south. The bridge is about connecting our communities.”
“The walls between the Christian way of life and an American way of life are basically collapsed and they're assumed to be the same thing.”
“Obviously, this dad is going to suffer the consequences of his actions for the rest of his life.”
“Terri is a convincing proponent of the connection between our quality of life and the economic health of Dane County.”
“I've ridden my whole life. I used to ride hunters and jumpers. If I wasn't at my work, I was at the barn.”
“It's not going to be a sad thing. It's just part of life and I certainly can deal with it.”
“[He said] therapeutic cloning, ... creating human life for the purpose of exploiting it and a lot of people have ethical problems with that.”
“Adele is one of the most, to coin a cliche, life-affirming people I've ever met, especially because of her bleak outlook,”
“Sexuality is very fluid, and you can be at any part of the spectrum at any time in your life.”
“The only thing you can ask for in life is a chance. I had that today. I had it the last two Olympics. I got to win a silver medal in my home country. Unfortunately, I just didn't get it done for my team. It's not going to be a sad thing. It's just part of life and I certainly can deal with it.”
“The regard in which he is held by people from every walk of life in virtually every corner of the world has added incalculably to our ability to cover such historic events as the Gulf War and the war in Iraq, the collapse of communism in Eastern Europe, the crackdown in Tiananmen Square and the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon,”
“We've been very fortunate that the loss of life in Alabama has been very, very minimal.”
“Part of the scenario today was to teach people what the process would be in a real-life situation.”
“Free music for life gets into an economic model that's not going to work over time.”
“Life doesn't happen to us, it happens from us”
“The BC Ferries people are very well trained. I would put my life in their hands again because they knew what to do in an event like that.”
“I feel great, I came to compete and represent the United States. All you can ask for in life is a chance and I had it the last two Olympics. I just wish I could have done better for my teammates.”
“All of life seems like that. Once we settle into some phase or other, and become attached to it, some unknown force makes us move on, only death obviously relieving us from these exhausting cycles.”
“Unfortunately it didn't go as I'd hoped. But fortunately I know there's a lot worse things in life than not finishing the Olympic Games with a medal.”
“I just accepted provolone into my life.”
“[The company she now keeps on screen is dazzling but Davis hasn't had to abandon everything about her life in Britain. This week, before she starts work on her first Hollywood film, she is making a visit to the US set of The Office.] I can't wait but it'll be a bit strange, ... The first episode was so close to the British version that I found it difficult to watch. But now it's doing its own thing, it's a very different show. I love it.”
“You do need more than just a little dab at it, because it's everyday life for a lot of these kids, ... Not all of them, but a lot.”
“I've been in Kennedy Square for 31 years and this is the 3rd time that we've had someone's life taken since I've been here. So I would say very surprising.”
“My life was literally put on hold for almost seven months, and now it's turned upside down because the defense wants to twist things around a little bit.”
“I'm absolutely going to come back to Alabama and work on public policy for the rest of my life. Both of those issues were introduced to me through LEI. LEI demonstrated to me that there were people fighting every day to make Alabama a better place.”
“It wasn't a life-threatening situation. He just couldn't get out.”
“You can best teach character on the playing field, using sports to teach life lessons,”
“There's always been the educational process of teaching people that I sing, that I've sung all my life and that I'm not an actor who just decided to sing, ... I consider myself a singer first.”
“My work comes to life when the thread goes on top of the fabric.”
“Budgets are doomed to fail because people cut out all of the fun in their life. People need to have leeway.”
“I will come with independence and a fresh perspective. I have life experience and public servant experience that will serve (Missourians) well.”
“We came down on behalf of the Blue Star Mothers, ... Our church, Word of Life Fellowship Church, donated $1,000.”
“I wanted to make my life better, and to do that I had to gain a solid understanding of financial principles.”
“We want it to be family entertainment. That's just life, life is family.”
“Love life and cherish peace are the tenets.”
“By removing these rays, we extend the life of artifacts, ... If you look at the Declaration of Independence; it's really hard to see the signatures on it -- that's because of the light they used.”
“We hope to work together with people of all walks of life in Taiwan, enlarge the scope of cooperation and strive for the bright future of the cross-straits relations.”
“That was the longest two minutes of my life.”
“What more can anyone do? The BRDC want everything their way. Business life is not like that,”
“We're talking about ending someone's life. It would seem like getting a second opinion is just logical. We should do everything we can to make sure there's a full consensus by reputable experts that the right decision is being made.”
“Tennis is a great game that you can play your whole life. I don't know why more people don't just go out and try it.”
“We need to let the public know that smugglers, they don't care about any human life. They don't care about anything except lining their own pockets.”
“The president has said that Lance is an incredible inspiration to people from all walks of life, that he's a true American champion, so I think they'll enjoy their visit on Saturday.”
“There is a lot of life left in this cycle and I sincerely believe we have bottomed out and will be going up.”
“He's smart. He's been a New Yorker all his life.”
“CBP officers may have protected the life of a child by making sure that these toy guns did not fall into the stream of commerce and be confused with a real handgun, resulting in tragic consequences.”
“We will continue to mobilize and radicalize the protests in favor of life and against the free-trade agreement. There will be neither dialogue nor contact with the government.”
“I think that was the hardest decision I've ever made in my life. It was also the right decision, but having it be right did not make it easy.”
“There really is no comment to be made and nothing to report. Everything seems to have taken on a life of its own. The most important thing is that Lou would like to finish the season without this major distraction. So neither he, myself nor the Tampa Bay Devil Rays have any comment to make.”
“I am very adamant about keeping my private life private. I don't prefer to talk about my family.”
“Food is a big part of life,”
“The majority of the people want the quality of life protected.”
“This right here is the most impressive and the most important thing I'll do in my life. It will be around forever.”
“Term insurance has always been a product that is for someone who needs life insurance. There is no cash value build up like in a whole life policy.”
“Russia know they only have a chance to challenge for the first or second place in a life-or-death match with us. We have to know how to deal with that kind of game.”
“Our immediate thoughts are with Terrell's family. Terrell was an outstanding young man with his whole life in front of him. It's so tragic. He came to most of our home games this season and was looking forward to getting his education at USF.”
“You don't fear for your life in the middle of a storm, you can't really afford to,”
“It's simulating a real-life experience.”
“There is no immediate universal threat to life as we know it, but numerous Web scripts are an easy target of specific variants of the attacks.”
“Not one more dime, not one more life. Demand that our troops be brought home now.”
“She let them be part of her life. Her daughter told me at the funeral that she sometimes got scared at the people Pearl would bring up. But she made such a difference in people's lives.”
“It's definitely a bigger picture that takes in world and life issues. With the state the world's in right now, how could it not?”
“Peace begins with you by the actions you do every day and the way you live your life. Peace is a choice, and you promote peace wherever you go.”
“She was too busy living life.”
“The American Library Association (ALA) is saddened by the tragic loss of life and widespread damage to homes and communities by Hurricane Katrina, ... Libraries are an indispensable part of their communities, providing support and resources for everyone. Dozens of libraries in Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama need our assistance so they, in turn, can meet the many needs of their communities.”
“The exhibition is not just about art, but about life. The ideas in the exhibition relate to so many aspects of everyday life, as well as animating works of art across a huge range of media. Swarms are not controlled by a central plan or leader; they operate according to small local interactions, where individual agents don't have a picture of the global system, and yet they are building. This is like so much in our lives, from political movements and opinion-making to traffic jams and how crowds move.”
“Confusing geographic name information is bringing inconveniences to post, first aid and other aspects in daily life, sometimes even endangering the safety of our people.”
“These voyages will lead to greater discoveries regarding marine life and maritime history. There are many secrets held fast by the oceans. They are the last frontiers on Earth.”
“It's a completely open economy, ... It allows people from all walks of life to find their way to the top. There are no barriers.”
“They have taken a guy that was one of the best law enforcement people ever known and reduced his life and his family's life to rubble.”
“Michael was an amazing artist and poet. He wrote his feelings. He had such a difficult life. It was just him and his pen and paper.”
“At that moment, my life crumbled from every angle and has since never been the same. My heart aches with sadness each and every day.”
“Bambi doesn't walk through the woods praying. Bambi doesn't go through life wondering if there's a heaven or hell, and wondering if he's going to one place or another. We alone are the only creature on this planet that does all those things. We are the only creation on the planet that is spiritual.”
“Six hundred and seventy-three days ago, this horrible crime occurred and at that moment my life crumbled from every angle. My heart aches with sadness each and every day.”
“We're not mourning a loss. We're celebrating a victory: his victory in life over forces that would hurt his people, his victory in terms of letting us know that love is more powerful than hate.”
“We stand by this good pro-life law that will reduce the number of abortions in our state.”
“We'd like everybody to come to celebrate her life. Some of her friends are going to speak.”
“This is a quality-of-life project where the public benefits by one, getting rid of (a) dilapidated building and, by two, increasing the value of the property, thereby increasing the tax revenue for District 87 and the city.”
“I avoid doing anything outrageous that the press could pick up on... there are no scandals in my life.”
“It hasn't even hit me yet totally. There are a lot of memories here. My whole life. My poor mother, everybody. I can't believe it.”
“He was the kind of writer who took a person's life and made it interesting. If you wanted to get the humanity of a story, you assigned it to Tim.”
“The Life and Creativity of an American Artist, John Pike,”
“It was a constant worry would I spend the rest of my life in prison, would I die in prison.”
“We have to stop this chain. We want to get the message out there that you have your whole life in front of you and we do care. There are people there for you, people you can turn to.”
“As we get older, we kind of fight the aging process. But it's a natural part of life.”
“You concentrate on the fact you gave them a quality, happy life. Rather than putting all the emphasis on the death, you focus on the living part. It?s actually a happy ending not depressing.”
“Learning is not restricted to any age; it's not just for the young. Try to learn things throughout your life, and it will help keep your cognitive functioning higher.”
“followed by probation or community control for the remainder of the person's natural life and subject to a system of active electronic monitoring.”
“I've had people say it's your mid-life crisis tattoo. I don't think so, but if it is, it's a pretty harmless one. I just like them. They're not on there for anyone else, but more it's something that's there for me.”
“Her political will and her iron courage saw off the threats to our way of life that Britain faced in 1979. We all owe her an enormous debt”
“We only have so much life left. Before I do die, I want to do something good for people.”
“When you learn not to want things so badly, life comes to you.”
“I don't think I've ever prayed so much in my life. But, hey, it worked. . . . It was fun and not fun. I trust my teammates, but being on the bench with the game on the line is one of the worst feelings in the world. I'm just so proud of my teammates.”
“I'm doing things I need to do to make a good life for her. I want to be successful, so that she can be successful.”
“People will see life differently through the art they own or the art they purchase.”
“Step by step, we're continuing to build a strong, modern infrastructure for life sciences research at KU. New lab space in the MRB, and new core research service space in the SBC, gives us the capacity to expand our existing drug discovery and development efforts. This supports everything else we're doing to advance basic research at KU.”
“You can't spend your whole life teaching people about public service without finally thinking that you should put your money where your mouth is.”
“It's always been a part of my life. It was very tough to see it burn.”
“At some time in everyone's life, we all start needing a little help.”
“It was the worst noise I've ever heard in my life. He was screaming to the top of his lungs. He was in a lot of pain.”
“I'm not going to be playing basketball anymore. I've been playing it all my life, and I'm sad.”
“That's the toughest loss I've ever had in my life. I don't know how you can ever recover from that -- I'm a senior.”
“People don't feel Europe and they don't feel Brussels. The idea is to bring some life into a soulless, threatening process.”
“She was so involved in her family?s life and made sure everyone worked hard and strove for the best. She was my best friend in the whole world. A great, caring person is gone now.”
“Everyone who knows me will know the truth, which is that my children come first in my life and that I would never harm any child.”
“I've never seen him mad, never in my life.”
“Ocean noise is an insidious form of pollution. The tremendous damage it is doing to life in the sea is becoming more evident with each passing year.”
“On considering a career change, I would say go for it, ... Life is short-lived, and you've got to take it while it's there and run with it.”
“Studies show that people who learn to save early in life usually make smarter financial decisions later. National Teach Children to Save Day starts kids off in the right path to saving for their future.”
“This is a very important day in my life. I want to make history. Even if it means I will walk for 10 hours, I will do so,”
“He's in love with Daisy, but he doesn't want to settle down. For Daisy, the whole thing in life is to marry him and be a good wife to him.”
“I danced my whole life, and belly dancing made me feel more comfortable to be in my own body.”
“The life I've lived, ... you don't see people that just pour out and give to you.”
“The Hartford is focused on making life insurance more widely available and easier to buy. We are confident that by making it easier and more affordable to buy life insurance, more families will have access to the protection they need.”
“It didn't matter what else might be going on in her life, she had her column ready on time every week.”
“Can't address the big fact that the bulk of life is taking place under the pressure of an onslaught of images.”
“We're powerhouses. We absolutely love life and new experiences.”
“If he was in a fight and then he was fighting for his life for two or three days, we should have been notified so we could have got over there, and we should know something more about it by now.”
“The way of life is totally different.”
“I never made conscious choices. There were times in my life that I chose the first job that came along because I was broke. I think that there were maybe a handful of times that I had a choice. In recent years, I've had more of a choice, and it's been very nice to have that choice, but most of the time, you just hope that there's another job after this one.”
“The Gift of Life raises money to support cardiac surgery for children from developing countries who don't have any means to get surgery in their own countries.”
“Life is not all about money. It's more about relationships.”
“The debate on gas prices has accelerated the end of the life cycle for many old-style SUVs. But the SUV segment was already undergoing changes well before gas prices became an issue.”
“People who feel that their ways of life are threatened or feel generally anxious or confused about the way things are going are disposed to look for causes.”
“The debate on gas prices has accelerated the end of the life cycle for many old-style SUVs. But the SUV segment was already undergoing changes well before gas prices became an issue.”
“Our mission is to inspire and inform women to live life to the fullest through outdoor adventures.”
“Art teaches nothing, except the significance of life.”
“When I went in I thought, 'gosh, I've been a runner my whole life, certainly there probably won't be any issues with my heart.' That would have been the last issue I would have come up. But it came back a high score.”
“Who of us does not recognize that the life we live, however larded with brave talk about values and thought and ideals, is not actually a life dedicated to immersion in the endless torrent of images, songs, sounds and stories?”
“This is a tremendously important boat. Hemingway spent so much of his life in Cuba and the boat played an integral role in his life while he was here.”
“Even losing games, kids need to learn things. How little things can make a difference in life, like in basketball games. How to react from losing and don't quit. How they handled those situations says good things about their lives.”
“You know grief. You've had it in your own life. But I don't use it directly. It's processed through my acting instincts, the bit of me that knows about those things, so when it comes out it's not my grief that you're seeing, it's the grief of that character. It's active imagination.”
“This was a one-time major expenditure for a public building that we hope will have a life well into the next century. I hope this will be a landmark, a place where people congregate.”
“It's a deal you don't pass up when you're facing two five-to-life sentences.”
“It perhaps helped him transition into retired life.”
“When you write down your life, every page should contain something no one has ever heard about.”
“I get to see its everyday life, and I'm excited about that.”
“We must change the culture of illegality that shrouds those who came to America for a better life.”
“It's a horrible story because it endangers his life, other people's lives. It's got to end. It's got to stop. But there's only one person that can do that, and that's him. We can all care about him, we can all talk to him, but at the end of the day, bottom line, he's the guy that's responsible for that.”
“That's the way life is. It'll all be taken away from us in the end.”
“I'm sorry to see a life have to be taken, but justice has to be served someway.”
“I'm at a loss to describe Lou. There were so many accomplishments and so many magnificent gestures in his life not to mention the finest vocal pipes God has given. He was my best friend and I miss him.”
“I feel very fortunate and thankful that we were OK. That's all you can be. You go on with life.”
“We have no standard any more for anything, ever since human life is no longer the standard.”
“What kind of new life have I got? I can't even replace it.”
“We have to keep evolving as people and keep it fresh. Life has its twists and turns, and being comfortable in your skin and loving yourself is the best way to get through life.”
“I'm always there to tell people that their life is not that bad. I wish it was easy to follow that advice It is important to our friends to believe that we are unreservedly frank with them, and important to friendship that we are not.”
“I think that this character, Father Moore, is embarking on a very difficult chapter of his life and he embraces the future with courage and fortitude and above all, faith,”
“You're going to remember all your life this time.”
“Honestly, it was a mistake that every goalkeeper makes once in his life. If we had scored with the chances we had, nobody would have noticed.”
“I've been closing my whole life, and I love closing. Last year, I got a chance to start and I loved that. I like the strategy that comes with starting.”
“It's the biggest thrill of my life next to having kids and being married. There is just nothing else like it anywhere. We've been waiting for this ? not only in Houston, but in the state of Texas ? for a long time.”
“The characters on the show talk like people talk in real life. I think people are going to appreciate that. This is a show people can relate to.”
“You can feel rhythm when you can?t even hear it, ... Rhythm, dance, music ? it?s all in your life.”
“has for most of her adult life lived in public housing and is flying around now on United States Air Force airplanes campaigning for the United States Senate.”
“I think what this guy has done is arrange a perfect life, or at least a life he thinks is perfect for him. Once you've done that, and once you've entered into that mindset, it's difficult to unravel it. Would he have done that forever? Well, he loved her, and he's a simple man. He's not a complicated guy or sophisticated like you and me. We would see the writing on the wall very soon.”
“There's a sense that people who telecommute are more flexible. They can combine their home and work life, and they will go the extra yard when needed because they've been given the opportunity to better manage their time.”
“Are you a totally open book or are there some parts of your personal life that are just not for TV?”
“When I first came here, he told me it was a hard life and difficult to find a job. He gave me $20 to start out.”
“Alternatives to Materialism. I lived my life in an ivory tower, and business was to be held at an arm's length.”
“This is the first study to show this long-term relationship between physical activity and dementia later in life.”
“During my life I have seen, known, and lost too much to be the prey of vain dread; and, as for the hope of immortality, I am as weary of that as I am of gods and kings. For my own sake only I write this; and herein I differ from all other writers, past and to come.”
“I've been a very blessed guy. I've been given a lot of opportunities in my life. A lot of people have helped me along the way.”
“have defined my life, shaped my abilities and my desire to serve.”
“These projects will spur economic development and improve the quality of life for thousands of Hoosiers,”
“You have to guard that one like your life depends on it.”
“You can't blame the immigrant. All he's looking to do is improve life for his family, so he will take these jobs that Americans can't or won't do for slave wages.”
“40 years old. He has been around a long time. He's having a great second act in his life. I think people really root for him. He's a good-looking guy. And he does have the greatest head of hair in all of television.”
“We had kind of a dual life. We'd be studying for a chemistry test on Friday, then get on a plane to Vegas and play for hundreds of thousands of dollars on the weekend.”
“When Dale Murphy speaks, everyone in sports should listen. Dale led a model life during his career, and still does. This book is a heartfelt attempt to help every professional athlete and I guarantee it will.”
“It's kind of like living a dream. For me the whole thing is there's a better way to live life. We want to help other people live better lives. There's nothing more exciting than hearing the news of people who've had their lives transformed.”
“Everyone knew him. He was just special. The school and sports fit his life perfectly. We did some things to help him, and he did a lot to help us.”
“There's a sense that people who telecommute are more flexible, ... They can combine their home and work life, and they will go the extra yard when needed because they've been given the opportunity to better manage their time.”
“It's a fascinating end to the case. People will now be watching to see if Jackson's career and life can recover.”
“Tupelo would obviously be desirable for manufacturing in the life sciences field.”
“That was his heart -- helping people, being a servant. He laid down his life service to other people.”
“I've never seen a player work harder in my life.”
“No life is so hard that you cannot make it easier by the way you take it”
“I've never seen a united effort like this in South Dakota before where literally everybody from every walk of life and both political parties are standing in unison.”
“This is life or death, basically. At least for me on the regular tour, there is always next week or the week after. Out here, there is no next week. It was tough.”
“I think we know our postseason life is on the line every day - not every game - every day. We have our sense of urgency every day.”
“On Workers Memorial Day, our union honors the dead and fights for the living. A life lived in public service is a valuable life worth remembering and protecting.”
“To me- it's a quality of life issue. Parks should be provided by tax dollars. Parks are closing, pools are closing, kids programs are getting pulled out... and we don't want to see that happen.”
“Everybody is celebrating what she did saving someone's life, but she does that every day she goes to work. She is just as much a hero any day of the week that she comes home.”
“No life is so hard that you can't make it easier by the way you take it.”
“It's pretty exciting to watch how it's helped. It's has some later life on the ball. When you have a sink like that, you just want him to throw it in there and hope they dig into the ground.”
“He knew I had head-coaching aspirations. You can't be the second assistant all your life.”
“Ban partial-birth abortion except to save mother's life.”
“It's a one-game season. From here on it's a fight for our life, but you just have to fight one day at a time.”
“This police officer went out there and put her life on the line, and Chief Knee sacrificed her.”
“Someone might be sitting there who people have told his whole life that he can't do anything,”
“That was the biggest nightmare of my life as a coach in that last inning. I really want to beat LSU.”
“Thomas lived a life we can all aspire to and learn from.”
“These pictures give us a fascinating record of rural life at a time when the countryside was changing. Rural crafts, agriculture, sports, and daily life, are all featured in George Garland's photographs.”
“Life has enough challenges, and getting insurance shouldn't be one of them. Whether a family buys a bigger house, lets their 16-year-old drive a car or needs some personal liability coverage, our goal is to provide the right products at the best possible prices. Dimensions auto and homeowners insurance is all about meeting life's changes.”
“That was the biggest nightmare of my life as a coach in that last inning, ... I really want to beat LSU.”
“With a little bit of knowledge and the right mind-set, you can lead a pretty comfortable life.”
“Altogether, it seems to me that Bam is rapidly coming back to life.”
“It's a second chance at life for a lot of people. I'm an example of that.”
“People don't enjoy violence in real life, but they love it in their movies. And I think a lot of studio horror movies don't want to offend anybody. If there's anything that's too far out there, they test it and if it offends people, they take it out. But Open Water , Wolf Creek , The Devil's Rejects - these are movies made outside of the studio system, that don't have a happy ending. (The studios and critics) forget that that's what people are paying for - to be terrified and disturbed.”
“I've been boating all of my life. My dad and I started boating in the '80s.”
“We know that football isn't always life. We've learned that lesson.”
“I've learned a lot of life lessons from Lee Corso. One of those lessons is that great jobs rarely become available. So you take a job and turn it into a great one. O'Leary can do that in Orlando.”
“It was an emotional time for the family, a life decision for them. The fact that we didn't agree right away wasn't unusual, given the magnitude of the decision.”
“He basically stabbed pro-life people in the back by joining the Gang of 14,”
“We know that rocks have been transported from Mars to Earth. It's possible that life existed only on Mars at one point. It's possible that rocks could have carried spores and life to Earth and that we're Martians.”
“Life goes on. We accomplished something tremendously together. I didn't accomplish again without him, and he didn't accomplish without me. So maybe we're just good together.”
“I am deeply grieved at the sad news of the great loss of life and serious damage caused by the recent hurricane disaster in your country. I wish to express to you and the people of your country my heartfelt condolences,”
“This sure as heck makes my life easier because we are going from a famine to a feast. Money will go for everything else we need to get such as a reflective vest and a tracking harness. We are going to set up a separate account for canine food.”
“I want it to be at the forefront of my life for the rest of my life. This whole process has been one horrible thing and 100 great things. It's tragedy and triumph. Every day, people treat my wife the way God wanted us to all treat each other. How many of us get that opportunity?”
“Do you know where he got the idea? ... From a William Saroyan play, 'The Time of Your Life,' that he saw with my mother. Near the end of the play there is a pinball machine that goes off like crazy. Dad couldn't stop thinking about it.”
“When you lay your life out there, you want it to be as true as possible.”
“The way we played didn't give them a chance to get any life.”
“We were very close. She talked to me about events in her life freely.”
“The cover is supposed to symbolize unity from every walk of life. That's what the music is basically about.”
“What I enjoyed most about the weekend was having the opportunity to view Jewish life on a college campus while at the same time having loads of fun with my friends.”
“When a guy shoots like that, it makes life easy. He did a nice job. He really did. He?s just a sophomore, and that?s good to see.”
“I remember it like yesterday. It was one of the greatest moments of my life.”
“Like any companion animal, it's a life-long commitment. It's not just something for the various holiday seasons.”
“I think it says that if you want to make a profit and have a high quality of life, come to McAlester. We're trying to add jobs and (expand) industry and cost is a main consideration when you're looking for a site location.”
“Everybody goes through life. Everybody needs things. Why take someone else's life and things that other people need to get what they need? That's just senseless.”
“Life in the city is schedule after schedule.”
“When you walked in that house, you saw nothing of that past life.”
“I find it much more interesting to concentrate on the development of [Clark] and show what happened in his life to make him the Superman that we all know him to be. To put on the cape or put on the tights and start flying around... makes things too easy for Clark.”
“Throw a theory into the fire; it only spoils life.”
“That's a spending habit that he would exhibit for the rest of his life.”
“This cast does an amazing job bringing the characters to life and showing how much pop culture can influence lives.”
“He always wanted to help people in whatever way he could. He went through life with a passion for participation.”
“We only had about three or four possessions where we got up and played people. That was the only life we had. Somewhere along the line we need to defend people so we can compete.”
“He gave his heart, soul, energy and time to this project. He was living a very low-budget life just to work full time on the project. It was a tremendous public service, in the truest sense of the word.”
“It's not the most normal life in the world, but I screw up plenty of times to be a normal teenager.”
“Dave has three interests in life. Soccer, hockey and food.”
“It's an incredible format. The First Tee is a wonderful program that teaches kids the life skills needed in today's world. The kids here this week have demonstrated they have those skills. And I can't think of a better reward than playing Pebble Beach with all of us this week.”
“We want to simplify life on the Web and we certainly have no intention of subjecting users to unnecessary advertising or exploiting personal data.”
“He didn't forget them in death, just as they are special in life.”
“We need more entrepreneurs in private and public life,”
“We've got good life out of our system so far, ... But if we don't adjust our rate structure, we'll just be running backwards.”
“I had never pinch-hit before in my life, so that was all new to me. I welcome it with open arms. I'll be ready whether it's the fourth inning or the eighth. I'll keep my ears and eyes open and take it all in.”
“If I'm not overloaded, I become depressed because I feel like I'm doing nothing with my life. Last year I lost a friend, a guitarist from my band. He was only 21 years old. Since then, I think a lot about death and about all the things I want to do before disappearing. So I never rest.”
“Medicare would just become for old, sick people at the end of life. And I don't think that's a good system ... I don't think that's the way I want to treat seniors in this country.”
“On this day we want to say thank you for an American hero, for one who would sacrifice his life so we could be free.”
“It was the hardest day of my life. I wasn't sure I would make it. As you get closer to the rim, it goes straight up.”
“These are skills we can take wherever we go in life, no matter what we do.”
“It's a large part of my life, but its kind of hard to have it be a large part of my life, because you get made fun of a lot, I'm looking to enrich my faith.”
“Hurricanes Floyd and Irene were cruel reminders that hurricanes can produce tragic loss of life and devastating economic disruption from inland flooding beyond a hurricane's damaging wind, storm surge or tornadoes.”
“Payne Stewart loved life. He was the life of every party.”
“We're not living in the middle of that every day. It's life. There are folks in Baton Rouge who are having to deal with circumstances that hopefully none of us will ever have to deal with personally. That's what makes it touchy.”
“At a moment that comes rarely in the life of a country. It is a time when destiny is ours to hold.”
“I have a life besides baseball. This isn't my life. I play because I can. A lot of people say Milton Bradley is a good person. I'm trying to be a good person. But anybody who stands between me getting there, they need to be eliminated. Something needs to be done. I'm not going to revert to the person I was last year and in the past. I'm starting to get respect because I earned it.”
“For some people, all their life is baseball. All they care about is how many hits they get, how many runs they drive in and how many plays they make. They're just looking for a plaque.”
“It's like the story of life. They see a whole generation live and die. Even the die part is important, teaches kids nothing lives forever.”
“That's it for me. I'm done and I'm looking forward to the next phase in my life now.”
“Everything negative in my life was a direct result of alcohol and drugs.”
“My life got so bad ? I had friends dying from it (heroin). I didn't care if I lived or died, I was so sick.”
“Nothing in my life is going right, right now and there's got to be a reason for that. I think that God is trying to get my attention to tell me that this is going to end very, very badly if I don't walk away from it.”
“I don't think that you can be prescriptive about anything, I mean, life is too complicated. Maybe there are novels where the author has not in the least thought about it in terms of film, which can be turned into good films.”
“Whatever life throws at us, we'll be able to handle it.”
“Double Duty shared such a love for baseball and a passion for life. We all loved to listen to his stories and share in his laughter. He leaves such a great legacy after experiencing so much history and change during his long life.”
“We're saddened by the news. Al lived a long and good life. We're so pleased we were able to win the World Series this year and that he was able to see it before he died.”
“And what was there over against that? The marriages of two of my sons, and Paul's new life as a young priest. Then the arrival of grandchildren, ... serving me imaginary tea.”
“Truth is more peculiar than fiction. Life is really a startling place.”
“Communism was a very hard life for everybody. We were not allowed to listen to music from other countries. They did not want us to know about the outside world. If you were caught with foreign newspapers, you were sent to jail.”
“After that happened, something really clicked inside of me. The only person I fear in my life is my heavyweight father. Besides that, I fear no man.”
“Economic growth is the key to living standards and improving quality of life and I feel that to neglect economic growth is to create more inequalities between Scotland and elsewhere.”
“He taught us how to deal with life. He wasn't afraid to shed a tear.”
“When you sew, it takes time, so you don't think the same way as you do in normal life. It's more dreamlike. I think Claire is able to stop time through embroidery and become more mature during its process. And she starts accepting herself, her body and the child through it.”
“The challenge will now be for industry and government to work together to get these cells into real-life power-generating systems to validate their reliability and ability to last for long periods of use in the field,”
“I spent almost 46 years of my life hating myself because I thought I was just too different for anybody else to love me. But I finally met somebody who loved me the way I was. In fact, she didn't want me to try to be anybody else but [me].”
“This is a key determinant of the health of the life industry, and with strong rises in this key measure, the underlying business is not in bad shape.”
“I have struggled. If you do racing all of your life, and then all of a sudden it ends, what do you do? Do you go back to school, do you start a business? All we know how to do is race. That's all I've done since my dad put me in a go-kart at 4.”
“What is interesting about the fall in life insurance net profits is that it was reported even though there was a considerable change in the net flow of funds position for the industry.”
“Business conditions for the life offices provide some grounds for optimism. We notice that in the recent reporting period, all life offices reported moderate to strong gains in their embedded values. This is a key determinant of the health of the life industry, and with strong rises in this key measure, the underlying business is not in bad shape.”
“It was one of those days in your life.”
“I have a great job, wonderful friends and a wonderful boyfriend and I love my life!”
“Through this business he brought what he taught in the classroom out into real life with many of the young people who passed through his door.”
“It's fairly low-key: 'Hey, it's Pat,' ... I can still shop and go on with my life.”
“Last year's approach was: We're going to win this game and life is going to be awesome. Then what happened? We couldn't drive the ball and our heads go in the tank. That will not be the case this time. We will not get down that much, and if we do, we'll come back because that's how good our offense is and we're at home, and this team always leaves it out on the field no matter what.”
“He was very fun loving, loved life, loved doing things with his friends and his family.”
“I'm just more comfortable at short. I've been playing there all my life. It's just more normal or more natural for me to play at short. Playing third was fine for that one year. I think it just made a better infielder. It's been a lot of fun so far this year because everything's clicking and it seems to be a great defensive year for us.”
“The partnership over the 28 years we had the company afforded him the opportunity to experiment and live his life as an artist and a label honcho and do what he wanted to do. It afforded me the same opportunity.”
“That was one of the craziest things I've ever seen. I was scared for her life, but she popped right back and was ready to go. We were down by 15 and she had no reason to do that, but she never gives up. She does everything she can as hard as she can. She is willing to give her body to the team. That's what she does more than anything.”
“Life is very different in USA than Guatemala. I think the city needs to help people living here to understand the differences.”
“They work all sorts of cases, including homicides. Any more, just about every aspect of your life has a computer involved.”
“It had to be the single-most life-changing experience I ever had on the LPGA Tour. I dream about it every night. ... It's still there inside me.”
“It had to be the single-most life-changing experience I ever had on the LPGA Tour, ... I dream about it every night. ... It's still there inside me.”
“It's not like I stopped doing drugs and the next day my life was perfect. It was in shambles.”
“Life! Can't live with it, can't live without it.”
“It was the most amazing experience of my life. While I was talking to him, I was thinking in my head, my God, this is the most powerful man in the world, and he's here talking to me about my college endeavors and everything.”
“I think we have new life now. The kids are really excited. We get to play on a college court in a state tournament, and when you're 10-13 that's a big deal. But forget about the records. These kids have worked hard all year long and now they're reaping some of the benefits from it.”
“The kids are excited. We've been given new life.”
“The days after that were really the most memorable, I suppose, of my life, because for a short time the nation came together in a way, and its politicians came together in a way, that they just aren't famous for,”
“The further away from Earth you get, the less plausible it is to talk about the similarities of life on Earth. It would be an independent origin of life that would be different from what we see here.”
“It's like a flashlight on a life raft in the middle of the Atlantic -- good luck finding it. But if there's nearly $3 trillion floating around, and you can hit it with products that relate to Japanese investors' culture and objectives -- a savings and income orientation -- then you're talking about a significant business opportunity.”
“The objective was to even out the debt over the life of the bonds.”
“He lost his life to $1,900. It wasn't worth it.”
“My mother always used to say, and she told me time and again this week, 'Life goes on, so get on with it. She couldn't stop saying that to her children. That's who she was. And we're getting on with it.”
“People are facing life-threatening situations. (The county) may have to consider granting payment for some of the medications.”
“It's difficult, but you deal with it. Family is part of your life. And so, I did what I had to do in New York. ... The last four days was about a family crisis. Now it's about Chicago, moving on and trying to get this job done here.”
“I had a very special family life. My mother and father made sure when we were home, we were part of the family, not a TV star. And the other thing: my father was fully employed while I was doing the series.”
“I never seen a little person in my life eye-to-eye, ... Asking all these questions to little people made me feel much better because I knew I was not alone.”
“You fall in love with glass, as you fall in love with Venice, as you fall in love with life. It's something very special and very intriguing.”
“I thank god for the 19 years he gave her to me, but why her life was taken from me, I just don't understand.”
“I have never been through this in my life before.”
“I try not to dwell on that. Criticism goes with all sorts of things in life. I don't think about that at all. My focus is on trying to help these young men be as good as they can be. By feeling bad or being distracted by what is being said, all you are doing is not answering adversity the best way you can. I try to put it where it belongs. I'm not beating myself up.”
“the most selfish man you will ever meet in your life.”
“Wouldn't that be nice if they did? Although, when you have a charity that's dealing with life and death today ... something that's really imminent, it's tough to tell other people what to do.”
“Texas has been providing immediate and life-saving services to thousands of its neighbors in the wake of this disaster, and our nation is grateful,”
“Now he can go about his life and pick up the pieces. When you've been under indictment as long as he has, you're pretty much unemployable. That cloud has been removed.”
“There is a time in the life of every problem when it is big enough to see, yet small enough to solve.”
“Do they still seek to influence and intimidate Lebanese politicians and political life in Lebanon? Absolutely.”
“It's making life very difficult for them.”
“There are people out there who can help you transition. There are many chapters to your life.”
“Life is too serious to be taken seriously.”
“I think the thing that was behind his teaching was that life offered wonderful opportunities. As a result, these students have done remarkable things with their lives.”
“We were dead to that point, and that gave us life. It's good to have a leader like that who speaks out and gets everyone in the game.”
“If states were given more authority we would work within the parameters supporting a culture of life,”
“When Lance was diagnosed with advanced testicular cancer, he was presented with the greatest challenge of his life. He faced that challenge and won. Now Lance has accepted a new challenge to make cancer a national priority and he needs all people -- walkers, runners, riders, volunteers, donors -- to rise to the challenge and join in this fight.”
“I'm surviving a life-threatening illness. Many do not, such as those without celebrity and fortune who have to depend on the public healthcare system.”
“She's a machine. She lives, sleeps, eats and breathes pitching. It's her life.”
“What kind of life lesson are you teaching your kids? If you can get away with something, get away with it?”
“I'm at a point in my life where I very much want to continue to work on public policy, on measures that we can adopt to improve life for all the citizens in the province. But I'm also at a point in my life where I want to do that without the demands of being in politics.”
“They're in the Job Corps learning real-life experiences and real life jobs, and we took that to the standard that we would give them the opportunity to be able to fly, experience first hand flying, getting through airport securities and then they'd come back and report.”
“I believe that if we really want human brotherhood to spread and increase until it makes life safe and sane, we must also be certain that there is no one true faith or path by which it may spread.”
“There are a lot of dynamics going on in my life that kept me from focusing on baseball. But I certainly want to make it clear that I'm thankful to be the coach at ASU.”
“As an American I wish my Dad had been elected. Personally I think my life is easier than it would have been in terms of having a career.”
“It was a sad day because for the first time in his life Tom parted with his child. It was heart-wrenching for everyone.”
“He had that wonderful booming voice, bigger than life. I can't tell you how often people would come up to Tom and say, 'When I was a kid I listened to you' ... and they'd walk away happy to be able to say they'd met him.”
“Brown became like a father figure to me who insisted I live the life of a monk, let alone a minister. I had to stay in the hotel he stayed in, stay in my room, and he would almost select my girlfriends. He was very adamant that he had promised my mother that I would not go wayward on the road, and he enforced it. So even though I knew the entertainment world, I was not of the entertainment world -- and not by any choice of my own. He promised my mother that he'd make sure I was never on drugs, that I never lost my head, and that he'd take care of me himself. And he did.”
“When sperm and egg unite, something goes from inanimate to animate. It is life.”
“We need to invest in prevention because it's better for the quality of life of people if they live longer without a chronic or disabling disease, ... and it's better for us as a nation because we're not putting so many resources in treatment of chronic diseases.”
“Only when man's life comes to its end in prosperity can one call that man happy.”
“Obviously this is something that we feel like he was able to fight through and move on with his life, and if we didn't feel good about that, then obviously there would have been a lot more hesitation if we were to take him.”
“When I'm doing it for charity I feel the freest and the best, ... I lived the life of a hustler for quite a few years, but God brought me out of it and made me a champion.”
“It addresses a life-long concern, the risk of someone ruining your game. I just don't want you, 50 years down the road, to have your game killed by some guy with a shinier walker.”
“[The Jackson Hole gathering this year is the equivalent of the American TV show] This is Your Life ... The Greenspan Era: Lessons for the Future.”
“Can you imagine how much sex that man has had in his life? It boggles the mind to even consider it”
“My mother suffered from breast cancer in 1973 and thankfully she survived and is still living a healthy life today at the age of 85. Once you come into contact with the disease in any way, it becomes a cause that is dear to you. We believe that this is a cause that is important to all families and requires the support and success to run annually.”
“I am just a person who is human, down to earth enjoying life... whatever god blesses you with. Enjoying life for me is just normal.”
“That's real life. To see in the people's eyes what they went through... We get hung up on basketball sometimes, we forget there's a real world out there.”
“I felt like once (Johnson) did that, it took the life out of them. You could see it in their faces that they weren't the same team that came out with that energy in the beginning of the game.”
“The constitution is good because it represents a new birth and a new life that we have been waiting for.”
“We want job opportunities and a good life, a good future for our children,”
“What will I do without you? They say that life goes on. I'm feeling sorry for myself. I can't believe you're gone.”
“It's part of our everyday life - history is. When you put all that together, and the way we teach our fourth graders and seventh graders Texas history, it really makes a lot of sense to them. They understand when they come to the re-enactment what it's all about.”
“Life is a mess in Iraq now. It will be worse than before when they lift the curfew.”
“It was like seeing my son born. The first breath my son took was the happiest moment of my life. When Davis' chest rose and he took that first breath on his own, it was like you saw the whole vision of life.”
“The good news is that Kevin is going to lead a healthy and productive life. In the very near future, we will have a thorough discussion with Kevin about his life after hockey.”
“This by itself doesn't mean anything, ... But this in concert with our other lines are starting to breath some life back into the company.”
“It's a terrific time in my life. I feel like a 40-year-old.”
“It's just nice to see a story about a kid who doesn't ... start the business part of his life early. He wanted to be around his buddies.”
“I've never been this embarrassed in my life. It's the worst show I've ever done in my life.”
“I was living out a parallel situation in my own life, ... feeding frenzy.”
“This is our life commitment.”
“Really, what people want is more simplicity in their life. They want a sanctuary.”
“You have this 18-year old who is trying to figure out his life. But you also have these 40-year-olds who are trying to figure out their lives, and this whole myth of, 'Once I have a family, a house, a husband, this hole I felt will be filled up and I'll be OK,' ... At 40 they're, 'Wait a minute, it's not all OK, I still have all those problems. What do I do now?' And I'm really happy to have both of those problems and both of those ages in the same story.”
“When it comes to basketball, I've never been nervous in my life. Why start now?”
“No, none. There's nothing I'd ever regret about this. This will be in my memories throughout college and my life.”
“I knew after my first lesson what I wanted to do with my life.”
“Any time you give that man (Favre) life he will make plays. You definitely don't want to be in that situation with Brett Favre. ... Once he got back into his rhythm, Brett Favre began to be Brett Favre.”
“Any place where there's liquid water, there's life.”
“A back injury, while it may not be life-threatening, can disable people for an extraordinary length of time, and can, in some cases, affect their quality of life in a permanent way. The cost gets passed on to everyone.”
“It was really tough, not having the routine like we're so used to. Basically living a different life than we're used to.”
“toughest person I've ever met in my life my hero, my soldier.”
“She had a most interesting life. I wish I could have met her.”
“I've been in service for 23 years, all over the globe, ... I have never in my career or my life seen the devastation to that magnitude that I saw there.”
“On her marriage breakup with Liam: I can honestly say that life is fantastic now. I'm so happy that all the mess I used to have to deal with is not my mess anymore.”
“Vanity is a vital aid to nature: completely and absolutely necessary to life. It is one of nature's ways to bind you to the earth.”
“[But Patton did not compete in contact drills this week.] He shows no sign of life at this time, ... I've seen no signs that the body is alive. I see no signs of (Patton) being able to go.”
“Being with these kids -- knowing their smiles, their pain and their courage -- changed my life.”
“Being with these kids -- knowing their smiles, their pain and their courage -- changed my life and taught me about life and death. These children left me with a simple reality: We don't always have much control over what happens to us, but we do have a choice in how we respond.”
“I am so proud of my brother. My dad's focus in life has always been to focus on improving your weaknesses because it will also improve your strengths. He is bringing the philosophy to his own team and it's a lesson that carries through not only as a hockey player but for everything you do in life.”
“I never had a sore arm or sore leg in my life.”
“These four years have been an incredible life-changing experience. I'm sure it will sink in a little more when I have a 9-to-5 job.”
“Staying in someone's home is a wonderful way to experience a different city. It's like stepping into someone else's life. Some people are funny about sleeping in a stranger's bed or having a stranger sleep in theirs, but I'm not against wearing someone else's shirt if he's my size. Several of the people we've exchanged with have become friends.”
“I think you appreciate more what a great life we have and what a great game we are playing more than when I was 18 or 20.”
“Those two dots don't connect. The situation with Tom Cruise is over. She is going on with her life, and I'm sure he's going on with his.”
“It's been very important for him. It was a very difficult time in his life. I think he and his family handled everything extremely well. I believe the university handled everything extremely well, and he's truly looking to the future. We are very proud of him. He's done an excellent job academically. He's been a very good teammate, and so moving forward is a very positive phase in his life right now.”
“This man took it upon himself to mete out life sentences upon those boys without any of the protections he's had in this court. Is two life sentences too much to ask for in exchange? If not for him, for who?”
“We have a lot of laughs and fun just talking about life.”
“It is your whole life in there. And you can pass because of the smallest thing, or not pass because of the smallest thing.”
“[Co-worker Harry Dundas, 51, has been with Headstone] since the '70s - somewhere in there. ... about all my life. And there's nowhere else I'd rather be.”
“Outside of my parents, what I learned at De La Salle has influenced me the most in my life. Obviously, there's a huge emotional impact.”
“The actions of local officials affect us. Our own quality of life is determined on a local level.”
“It was the dumbest thing I ever did in my life.”
“What happened last year was probably one of the worst moments of my life. We were really emotional last year. We didn't want that to happen again.”
“I just so wish, during my life, to see the open meetings act fixed. I have heard politicians say they?re not sure [how the law works]. But I?m not buying it. They have the resources to learn.”
“Everyone in life gets their opportunity somehow and you have got to take it. Tom has had a difficult couple of weeks. I have been giving him a very hard time and he has taken his opportunity with both hands. He said to me before the game he was going to play well and he backed it up.”
“There are some issues, quality of life issues, that I'm going to push for if I get on the common council, that I feel strongly about. If they want to go along with me, they can go along with me. Otherwise, I'm going to fight for what I believe in.”
“When you really sit down and [look] where you are in life, my situation, I can reflect on a man like Ron McBride and know that he helped me get there.”
“Personally it means a lot to me. I've worked hard my whole life playing. My senior year I wanted to come out and play hard. It's a great accomplishment to be named co-MVP.”
“I found that dance was key to keeping depression out of my life. When you dance, things just go away, things don't seem so bad. There's no better way to take care of health than through something as joyous and beautiful as dance.”
“She probably came from nothing, so it was very important to her in her adult life to have everything.”
“The past 17 months have been a challenging time in my life and for everyone associated with what happened March 8,”
“They obviously don't know what the rest of their life is going to be. But looking at veterans like myself, they can see they can live a normal life.”
“Second, the growing appreciation for the value of urban life and the center city itself. Finally, a desire for finding nature in one's life on a daily basis. People no longer spend summers 'at the lake' or take two-week vacations to gain refreshment. Instead, people are looking for a dose of the environment in small, frequent intervals.”
“I'm a firm believer in second chances, and if we're going to go through life not giving anyone second chances, what kind of life are we going to have? People make mistakes in life. Unfortunately, I was under the microscope and on TV when my mistake happened, and if I'm going to sit here and keep getting ridiculed about it, how are we ever going to give someone a second chance to become better or to change situations?”
“We are also tackling several longstanding industry problems that impact safety, such as employee fatigue and other quality-of-life issues,”
“There is no such thing as common sense. It's not common because everyone is different, and everyone has different life experiences. ... Many people just don't have any frame of reference or experience when it comes to understanding the Islands and our environment.”
“Our client is a compassionate, professional nurse who has devoted much of her life to kindly and gently counsel women during a difficult time in life. The ordinance violates her constitutional rights because it prohibits her from engaging in peaceful free speech as she has done for over 15 years on public property outside abortion clinics.”
“All my life I knew that there was all the money you could want out there. All you have to do is go after it.”
“My quality of life is nonexistent.”
“Just being around him when we were growing up, Vestal football was such a big part of our life from the time I can remember,”
“These birth mothers tried to make a plan for them that they might have a better life. If they hadn't made this decision, we wouldn't have the three greatest gifts of our life.”
“I've spent my entire life in the game on different levels, and here was an opportunity on an international stage to represent my country at a time when our basketball program needed an awful lot of work as a result of the World Championships in Indianapolis a few years ago and the Olympics in Athens.”
“You have to keep going and realize it's part of life. In that, we want everyone to share in the things that have happened to us.”
“I've come to the point in my life where less is more. The minute the last hammer fell on the last nail I called the real estate office.”
“Ahimsa [infinite love] is a weapon of matchless potency. It is the summum bonum of life. It is an attitude of the brave, in fact it is their all. It does not come within the reach of a coward. It is no wooden or lifeless dogma but a living and lifegiving force. It is the special attribute of the soul.”
“He lost his life not because of the hazing incident, but because of the investigation of the hazing incident,”
“My life is really full. I am really enjoying it.”
“Even now, we are having serious issues and complications [due to longer life spans], ... People have to recognize in the current situation, you just can't retire on Social Security at age 65 any longer.”
“I was incredibly saddened and disappointed that this person who had devoted her life to the legal profession never had a chance to go before the Senate Judiciary Committee and get a hearing,”
“Once they move, they're gone. Once you move, life starts over again.”
“He saw the possibility of a radio niche for what you might call 'uplifting talk' that focuses on everyday life. He comes across as an extremely likable and credible guy, and when he's getting a point across or even reading the five key findings of a medical research study, you know that his heart's behind it.”
“Everybody has disappointments in life, and we certainly had ours. I just want to continue living life. We're having a great time.”
“He was a hero to me, larger than life.”
“Simplify Your Work Life.”
“Everything was a prayer to St. Francis, his whole life was a prayer. This is what we strive for, too.”
“We're not building condos. I've never built a condo in my life.”
“All our lives. All our dads' lives. It's not just our life. It's our dads' life. Actually, our grandfathers' life.”
“The music that is most special to you and stays special all through your life is the music that is special to you in junior high, high school and in your early 20's. That's when you have time to spend on popular culture.”
“a man of peace who did so much in his life. We know him so well, miss him so much and can only share the thought that he rest in peace.”
“We have created a culture that requires more energy than people have to give. Give life to something that can make a difference, and do it with someone you want to share it with.”
“It's a cruel fact of American business life,”
“I really enjoy playing here. I just enjoy baseball. It's been something that's been a part of my whole life.”
“I wanted a variety in my life but after a couple of years I thought that music is what I do so maybe I should start doing it again.”
“I believe in Northwest and it's very difficult to walk away from it. Sometimes in life, you have to walk away from things you love to advance yourself and move on.”
“The Huntsman family has long been believers in the joy of life that adoption can provide. Ever since the adoption of their daughter, Gracie, they have considered the possibility of another international adoption.”
“It's a basic life choice I've been trying to make for five years. I hope I've finally made it.”
“It just doesn't get any better this. This is the best time of my life, the most fun time in my baseball career. I don't remember a race like this since I've been around.”
“Today is the happiest day of my life.”
“I think the big thing is good communication. You need to communicate your whole life and not just early on.”
“This is where we start celebrating life.”
“He has had a long, successful career as a criminal defense lawyer. He has given his life for it,”
“It makes my life pretty easy. The thing about Cassie is that she can pick up what I'm telling her and pass it along to the other girls.”
“For the first half of my adult life, I was a Democrat.”
“In my secret life, I wish I didn't have to be a university professor. I wish I could sing full time,”
“We can't turn and look at the refs for answers. We did nothing but breathe life into that team. It was nothing but a CPR session out there. They just kept waltzing to the basket.”
“Things like this aren't supposed to happen. It (life) goes fast and life isn't fair.”
“He's a great kid. He's been coached in football his whole life. His dad has been a Pop Warner coach for 30 years, so you know what you're going to get from him. I'm really impressed with how he played in this game.”
“Whatever success I've achieved in life, I credit number one to my experience here at the university,”
“Ring out a slowly dying cause,/ And ancient forms of party strife;/ Ring in the nobler modes of life,/ With sweeter manners, purer laws.”
“So careful of the type she seems,/ So careless of the single life.”
“For what are men better than sheep or goats/ That nourish a blind life within the brain,/ If, knowing God, they lift not hands of prayer/ Both for themselves and those who call them friend?/ For so the whole round earth is every way/ Bound by gold chains”
“He was the most genuine, charismatic horse I've been on in my life.”
“People will do and say what they want for their own sexual gain. One night can change your life. Don't blow the opportunities that lay ahead.”
“He is the most honest man you would ever want to meet in your life.”
“To stand by him will be one of the greatest moments in my life. He was the beginning of my literary career.”
“I couldn't find a bidet to safe my life. But I had short notice.”
“One main factor in the upward trend of animal life has been the power of wandering.”
“In the conditions of modern life the rule is absolute, the race which does not value trained intelligence is doomed”
“The last ten years have been the best of my life.”
“I don't think I know one person who understands this plan. I've never seen anything so complicated in my life.”
“What separates Brandon from so many other kids is his discipline. His training habits, his eating habits, his school life ... he puts in a ton of extra time. He basically does three workouts a day. His work ethic is above and beyond other kids.”
“I don't want to party my life away. If you aren't living for something, you are wasting your life.”
“What is life that I must get teeth pulled? Brown Dog thought, sitting on a white pine stump beside the muddy creek with a swollen jaw for company.”
“I think it increases my chances for a healthy life.”
“One pillar was the conviction that God grants life as an inalienable right, and they fought so that pillar would not be toppled by tyrants.”
“I've had a wonderful life. If I died today, it doesn't owe me a thing. I've tried to be a good influence on everyone I've met along the way.”
“Our goal wasn't to go undefeated. This streak has kind of taken on a life of its own. I just tell the kids to enjoy this season because it is special.”
“The department takes very seriously quality-of-life issues for the residents of New Jersey.”
“No, I have not. There's only one woman in my life, and I still love her to death.”
“Experiencing the Final Four was unbelievable. Life is fun now and a challenge, but there's nothing better than college.”
“I said yes. I still haven't learned the deep powder, but it's a good way of life.”
“I want to be part of a baseball team, and the sport will always be part of my life. It has been a passion of mine my whole life, and I plan on being around it. But I want to go to a school I love, not just go somewhere to love the baseball team.”
“I AM pro-life,”
“Diaspora communities are the main resources for this global jihad, ... (Their families) left for a better life, but they really have not been able to fully integrate with the recipient societies that they have immigrated to.”
“LIFE, n. A spiritual pickle preserving the body from decay. We live in daily apprehension of its loss; yet when lost it is not missed. The question, "Is life worth living?" has been much discussed; particularly by those who think it is not, many of whom have written at great length in support of their view and by careful observance of the laws of health enjoyed for long terms of years the honors of successful controversy.
"Life's not worth living, and that's the truth," Carelessly caroled the golden youth. In manhood still he maintained that view And held it more strongly the older he grew. When kicked by a jackass at eighty-three,
"Go fetch me a surgeon at once!" cried he. --Han Soper”
“Life is what happens while you are trying to get well.”
“CALAMITY, n. A more than commonly plain and unmistakable reminder that the affairs of this life are not of our own ordering. Calamities are of two kinds: misfortune to ourselves, and good fortune to others.”
“I think they should have better things to do. I mean, here's a man who's lost his life serving our country and I think it's a shame.”
“The best thing to do with the best things in life is to give them up.”
“She has stood up for flag and family, God and country her whole life, ... She is a lifelong Christian. She believes in the Ten Commandments and the Sermon on the Mount, and she believes strongly that America's borders ought to be protected.”
“DIARY, n. A daily record of that part of one's life, which he can relate to himself without blushing.”
“SIREN, n. One of several musical prodigies famous for a vain attempt to dissuade Odysseus from a life on the ocean wave. Figuratively, any lady of splendid promise, dissembled purpose and disappointing performance.”
“NOMINEE, n. A modest gentleman shrinking from the distinction of private life and diligently seeking the honorable obscurity of public office.”
“I can tell you his life is not the one he thinks about.”
“PARDON, v. To remit a penalty and restore to the life of crime. To add to the lure of crime the temptation of ingratitude.”
“Unless you are willing to change that Supreme Court and make it a pro-life constitutionalist court, your position is fraudulent and it is hollow and it is shallow,”
“Logan was a unique Memphis figure. His death was as unique as his life. I was very surprised about his death. He's a tragic figure.”
“Unfortunately, there are so many people who live their whole life in a place that is safe and protected and simple and they don't really have that strength inside to fly.”
“Most everybody has some very traumatic event that takes place in their life, ... Whether it's an accident like that, or it's dealing with alcoholism or drugs, we don't have guaranteed, perfectly scripted lives . . . It's been an amazing hardship to lose the leader of our family.”
“That has been said, especially by younger artists. But life just happens, and one step leads to the next, ... A lot of people were already working really hard doing what I was doing before I came along.”
“to never underestimate the impact one life can have on another.”
“Finding strong confirmation that simple life choices can provide significant protection from pancreatic cancer may be one of the most practical ways to reduce the incidence of this dreadful disease.”
“What a great thing to wish for, your life plays out in a way, that you miss something that's so important to you, and somebody says what would you like, or if I could wish I would turn back the hands of time and go back and enjoy this experience that I missed.”
“He's a guy who wouldn't have any enemies like that, not at this point in his life.”
“Life would be a lot easier if he'd be more forthcoming.”
“He lived the Christian life he was taught so that he was a true example to the children of the school and the adults that he worked with.”
“A couple things this morning are being driven exclusively by the option expiration tomorrow. It's just a fact of life that you get some abnormal activity in the week before, and certainly the week of, the option expiration.”
“Until today, I've always regarded my most profound professional responsibility in my professional life the blessing I had to hold in my hands the human heart, recognizing all its glory and all its potential, and then technically seating it into the chest of a dying woman to give her life and a future she would not otherwise have. . . . A few moments ago, my colleagues gave me a responsibility equal to that -- some would even say a heavier one. I accepted that responsibility with a profound sense of humility. They gave me their confidence, their support, their trust -- and elected me to serve as their leader in the United States Senate.”
“I have no doubt that Oprah will remain committed to bringing life-expanding novels -- their themes and their authors -- to the attention of the huge audience that she inspires. It seems the frequency and format of her book recommendations will now change but not Oprah's underlying mission of getting people to read to enrich themselves and to better understand others.”
“Every day I reassessed my life. The job was hard. One day I dug an entire sewer main by hand in six-and-a-half hours. That's the day I decided I probably needed to get back in college.”
“I am disappointed. I felt like we had an opportunity. In life when you get an opportunity, you need to take advantage of it. I am disappointed for our kids, not in our kids.”
“In life when you get an opportunity you have to take advantage of it. And I felt as if we did not do enough to take advantage of our opportunity. I'm disappointed for our kids, not in our kids.”
“the match of my life on the day of my life.”
“All of my business life, the Fed has played defense. Now it's crossed the scrimmage line and started playing offense. It's brought us to rates so low that even multimillionaires can't live off the yield. The Fed wants you to buy bonds, buy stocks, start a business, hire some people, and it is going to continue to hammer at you until you do it.”
“While I know that taking injections is not a way of life, I'm only looking at a few years, so that's a reasonable approach towards it.”
“Not only my imagination, but my life inspires my stories. All of my stories have a little bit of me in them.”
“I can be playing in front of a smaller group of people and playing the match of my life. At almost 36 years old, I don't take it for granted. That (U.S. Open) match with James Blake was one of the best moments of my career, to be part of something special like that. I hope I have some big moments ahead of me.”
“My promise to her was that I would try to keep life as normal as possible.”
“It makes life easier, doesn't it? It makes our team easier when they -- for lack of a better word -- produce. It takes a lot of the strain off.”
“The most amazing feeling in the world is the one you get right after you have just saved someone's life, ... And you have either the person or their family thanking you.”
“We have the same quality-of-life values and quality-of-life attitudes for our neighbors. We basically sing from the same song.”
“The really great novel tends to be the exact negative of its author's life.”
“Obviously, it's the biggest moment in my life in tennis so far.”
“It's the biggest moment in my life in tennis so far. I got a little too nervous but I managed to come through.”
“Life is good. And relaxed. And fun. That's really what it should be. Not too serious.”
“It's a quality of life thing for all the people in the Valley. It makes the air that you breathe in that area not full of dust. It makes driving on the road safer. It will increase the amount of fish and shrimp.”
“Never before in my political life have I been taken so seriously as woman as in the past few months. ... In return, I have publicly recognized my feminine identity to an unusual measure.”
“Before he got injured, that was his goal in life - to go back and be a firefighter in Iraq. He's more concentrated now on coming home and getting better.”
“I've never played a consolation game in my life. We expected to be playing for a gold medal.”
“I've never played in a consolation game in my life.”
“It makes you kind of wonder and makes you put things in a priority to see what's important. Life is important.”
“It's one of the few times in my life ... when you try to articulate what's going on inside and I don't think it's possible. This is up there for me.”
“I just can't say enough. We want to be there to thank him for what he did, giving his life for his country.”
“Symbolically, we wanted to give life to this idea that the 12th man was truly a part of the very being of this franchise, and it's become a self-fulfilling prophecy.”
“The new humane standards allow birds to have a much more normal life, including more space, perches, litter and nesting area.”
“Now I have a new lease on life. I have a new kidney, ... I always say I carry a part of my wife around with me every day.”
“A lot of states are moving on this now. It's very competitive. ... Life sciences is just one of the industries that everybody wants at this point, and understandably so.”
“He cannot be pro-life and pro-embryonic stem cell funding, ... Nor can he turn around and expect widespread endorsement from the pro-life community if he should decide to run for president.”
“On the one hand, it makes life very difficult for them. On the other hand - and this isn't a recommendation for being a suppressed writer - in their situation now, as with Havel and his friends in the '70s and '80s, the consolation is that your work matters.”
“We must be good stewards for our children's education and for our seniors' quality of life.”
“Most of the basic truths of life sound absurd at first hearing.”
“So that he seemed not to relinquish life, but to leave one home for another.”
“They live the life of Riley out here.”
“This is an excellent portrayal of life in Johannesburg, highlighting the hustle and bustle of daily activities in a big city.”
“So that he seemed to depart not from life, but from one home to another.”
“That period of my life I was fairly reserved and I tried to make a collection of images that didn't really involve people.”
“All I want is justice for my brother. I haven't stopped crying. Charlie didn't die of natural causes. His life was taken.”
“Isn't the saying that if you do something you love, you'll never work a day in your life? If you try to paint for the market, then what you're doing becomes a job. Once someone starts to lose passion for what they're doing, you can see it in their work. … There are so many good artists throughout history who did not start until late.”
“Looking for life on Mars is such a big task that we really had to start by building a knowledge base. We started exploring Mars with Viking by asking some tough questions, which led to more complicated questions and more exploration. We have to think of it like school. We start in kindergarten learning the alphabet and build from there. In kindergarten, we don't jump right into calculus.”
“The people, they relate to me. In my life, I've had a lot of heartache. I lost friends after my brain injury.”
“To see the devastation on the countries and on the peoples' faces. Sometimes people kind of take life for granted. Anytime you get the opportunity to give support, I think people should help out.”
“Kids are doing things online that they don't do in real life. We need to teach them that online is real. They have to be accountable for what they do... and they have to be able to live with the consequences of their online actions.”
“A little credulity helps one on through life very smoothly”
“The First Amendment has not repealed the ancient rule of life, that he who pays the piper calls the tune,”
“He's turned his life around. He's been a more positive guy. He's been a great role model on the field.”
“A lot of teens have no idea that what they're posting may have ramifications later on in life. If it's on the Internet for one second, it's on the Internet forever.”
“We come to work, we come for a better life, we come to participate in the American dream.”
“In real life, you have to worry about someone spotting you if you stalk them... . Online no one's going to punch you in the face.”
“Between now and 35 could be the absolute best years of his life. It would be very easy for that to happen, meaning that he could double or triple what he has done in the past.”
“All children? need to have access to the Internet to succeed in life,”
“Here I start out for the first time with a gun to my head, ... wanting to take my life and for the first time I'm on drugs and alcohol. I've lost my family. I've lost my job. It's the end-of-the-rope kind of thing.”
“had no idea she had another life.”
“If we don't get something out of this game, then it will make life very difficult for us. It's a massive game for us as we must get at least a point.”
“My whole life, I've always done good things. I've never even had a speeding ticket - well, no, I had one speeding ticket.”
“If we can do it in football, we can do it in other areas of life. It makes me very optimistic about the future.”
“That was the hardest I've been hit in my life.”
“They are receiving medical care, they are receiving food, they are receiving far better treatment than in the life they were living previously.”
“I dedicated 21 years of my life to formula one.”
“The United States regrets this loss of life and deplores the violation of Georgia's sovereignty.”
“The president believes that it's an American way of life.”
“The security fence will continue to be built with every effort to minimize their infringement on the daily life of the Palestinian population.”
“we must take certain steps that will make the Palestinian life easier.”
“We desire a life living side-by-side, in understanding and peace. We have no desire to rule over you. We have no desire to run your affairs.”
“So many filmmakers were passionate about [ Life of Pi ], but we felt a responsibility to the material and Yann Martel to wait for the right one at the right time.”
“The life of a BAR man in combat was about 10 minutes, and I lasted 30 days.”
“[Calling Hilton] the most incredible woman I have ever met in my life, ... I respect her decision and appreciate the very kind and generous manner in which she is handling her very difficult decision. This was the best experience of my life, and I will always be grateful for it.”
“One learns in life to keep silent and draw one's own confusions.”
“Even if it affects one or two kids, and would save even one kid's life, it would be worth it.”
“One learns in life to keep silent and draw one's confusions”
“It's become a way of life here. There's very little discussion about it anymore.”
“Religion is an important part of my life,”
“It is all about quality of life and being proud of what I do. I need me to be me.”
“Greater love hath no man than this, that he lay down his friends for his life.”
“It really has nothing to do with his album or whatever else he's doing in his life.”
“If life begins at 40, what is it that ends at 39?”
“They're negotiating about an institution that doesn't exist and shows no signs of coming to life, ... The state collapsed in June, 2003, and definitely needs to be rebuilt.”
“This penalty is in no way meant to place a value on the tragic loss of life in this case. Each human life is priceless.”
“It was one of the biggest musical moments of my life. From then on, Dennis tried to hire us for sessions.”
“This is about the worst loss I have ever felt in my entire life. It got away from us [Sunday]. It's tragic. I think we let a great opportunity [slip away]. I'm not getting over this for a while.”
“Dave is certainly critical of the loss of dignity of the human person and the trivialization of human life in our contemporary culture. That will certainly be a theme in his lecture,”
“What I like about the Lake Worth program is they are studying life before the Holocaust.”
“If you ever don't see him smiling, something's wrong because the guy's happy every day of his life.”
“To have your life be as great as it can be, you need to give up the blaming. Find your role in the problem. Then take whatever action you need to handle your situation.”
“Sen. Dole can avoid this fight if he simply stands up and says, 'Listen, I ran as a pro-life candidate. I'm committed to Ronald Reagan's plank in that platform. I do not want a battle on the convention floor. If there is a battle, I will stand with those who stand with the human life amendment and if necessary, I will speak on its behalf,”
“The ultimate success of Skills for Life will depend on the 'hard to reach' being persuaded of the benefits of gaining qualifications. To this end, it is a matter of grave concern that those with the greatest need have been getting the worst quality teaching.”
“He's definitely a top-level gamer. He's been an amazing player all his life and we hope that continues. He might be the biggest recruit we got.”
“He would not consider it unless he saw compelling evidence that it would not harm New Hampshire's quality of life. And I don't think the Legislature will pass it.”
“The issue of physician-assisted suicide is tied into what President Bush calls 'the culture of life.' So this is a real emotional issue for them [conservatives]. And it's likely to be a very close ruling at the court, with Roberts again, perhaps, a key vote.”
“At some point you have to get away from the game and enjoy your life. I like to golf and travel, and take a good three weeks off before I start lifting.”
“There's a certain romanticism about the court's role in American life, the ability of the court to be a moral beacon for the country, that drives justices to take progressive stands.”
“I've spent my whole life being told I have a face like a horse. You are just what you are, aren't you?”
“It's best to rise from life like a banquet, neither thirsty or drunken.”
“This is the greatest thing I've ever done in my life, but I wouldn't do it again for all the world. I like to have froze.”
“So my record is pretty plain, that, although I am pro-choice, I have supported many pro-life nominees,”
“In a neighborhood, as in life, a clean bandage is much, much better than a raw or festering wound.”
“Whatever happens happens. I'm not looking at making any immediate life changes.”
“There is a power much greater than you or I. It's also your life force. To the extent that you connect with this power, life works.”
“This presentation changed my life...and that's no exaggeration! Multi-Dimensional Marketing woke me up to no fewer than 4 profit creators in my business. I'm literally shaking with excitement to go home and start making changes.”
“It's not their call to make. The one thing they don't tell you is that these life jackets are horrible. They're terrible to be in.”
“We don't want any more of this. We just want to live a quiet life.”
“It's something you don't like to think about every day. I think the life expectancy for an offensive linemen isn't real great. Me having young children, that's a somber point, but it's part of your job. ... (A player could) try to play at 200 pounds, but that isn't going to happen.”
“I think the life expectancy for offensive linemen isn't great. For me, having young children, it's a somber thought. But it's part of the job.”
“I think the life expectancy for an offensive lineman ain't real great. Me having young children - that's a somber point, but it's part of our job.”
“I've got too many things in my life to worry about than him playing dominoes in here three years ago, ... It don't make no difference to me at all.”
“It's, like, when you want something in life, you want it so badly that you start taking action to get it, because you want it.”
“I have no doubt I was someone very interesting in a past life.”
“For the past 12 years my life has been travelling and living away from the ones I love, and now I live in New York.”
“He's reading Hemingway and writing his life story. It's so gratifying to see him reading Hemingway.”
“At least he got to enjoy life and share love for almost a year.”
“My son was the most responsible person to actually have to be put in a position to sacrifice his life to save his wife.”
“This money, for some people, could be life-saving.”
“He's been in the Coast Guard his entire life, and one of the things he does and does well is what the Coast Guard motto is, be always prepared. He takes every new event and gets down and starts working and sees it to its end.”
“Track and field was a part of her life, but now she's making something else a part of her life.”
“Trust is knowing that however life turns out, you will be fine.”
“They'll be friends for life.”
“We must not inflict life on children who will be resented; we must not inflict unwanted children on society.”
“Providing trails enhances the quality of life in the community and are a great asset to have. They provide yet another activity for people to become active in and are a fun way to get out and see the sights around town.”
“He loved his cats. That was his life.”
“This (man) shall live and shall not die, we rouse this man (to life)! I make for him a remedy, O death, do not slay the man!”
“If I could show you the stack of paper, the stuff I had to do, the demands on my life. All of a sudden I felt very small. It was overwhelming. ... It was fear.”
“‘True-knowledge' brings good health, strength and long life to a man. ”
“In order to be blessed with a long life it is imperative that we become strong both mentally and physically . We should do all that makes our mind and body healthy and energetic. ”
“Please be kind and compassionate, O Lord of my life; I am helpless, and I seek Your Sanctuary, God. Please, give me Your Hand, and lift me up, out of the deep dark pit. I have no clever tricks at all.”
“And they saved my life. And I've been here ever since.”
“The string of life is wearing thin, day and night, and you have done nothing for your soul. Doing your deeds, you have grown old; your voice fails you, and your body has become weak.”
“My life is prosperous, fruitful and approved; I know that the Guru, the Supreme Lord God, is near me.”
“A weak man can never achieve success in his life. ”
“There is importance of money in life. In order to meet the demands of life money is required and hence we should try to earn wealth so that we don't have to face problem. ”
“Our actions should be such that we become fearless. This can happen only when we lead a virtuous life and follow a righteous path. ”
“For a married woman, detachment from the father's clan is natural because she begins a totally new life with her husband, which is literally her second birth.”
“You have wasted the precious jewel of this human life; you do not know the Way of the Lord of the Universe.”
“As with everything else in life, sometimes things are inches from being completely and utterly different. But the best thing to do is deal with the reality and accept it as it is.”
“There is in life the tragedy of ignorance and selfishness. They force man to take the wrong road; and suffer calamity.”
“Naturally, man has to seek all means of discovering the meaning of Life, for without knowing it, he is lost; he wanders from birth to birth, receiving knock after knock and is seldom the better for all the experience.”
“The 'Past' and the 'Future' being fearless, are indestructible! In the same way, O Life! Be free from fear.”
“That's under the stupid-things-I-did-in-my-life category.”
“I do not understand how anyone can, in good conscience, tell a family whose child is suffering from a life-threatening disease that politics is more important than finding a cure.”
“My definition of democracy is - A form and a method of Government whereby revolutionary changes in the social life are brought about without bloodshed. That is the real test. It is perhaps the severest test. But when you are judging the quality of the material you must put it to the severest test.”
“Whoever was in charge of planning was so detached from the realities of inner city life in New Orleans ... that they couldn't conceive of the notion that they couldn't load up their SUV's, put $100 worth of gas in there, put some sparkling water and drive off to a hotel and check in with a credit card,”
“But who knows? My knee may be like this for the rest of my life, ... I have to give it an honest effort. I have to give it a shot ... to say I did what I did to try to get it back to normal. And if it doesn't go back to normal then that's just the way the knee is.”
“Ha! Do you guys believe that? Do you guys know my life history a little bit? One, you insult my children, who are half-white. I was married to a woman who was white, so let's get real. I don't even know the guy. Tell him he's an ... idiot.”
“We want to recover everything we can, but not to create a movie set. We want to recover the life of the city.”
“I want to be able to play with my kids, man. There's a lot more to life than baseball.”
“I think school is the most important thing in anybody's life. My life has been richly blessed by being able to go to college.”
“He's betrayed his family; he's betrayed the people he ? everybody he's ever dealt with his whole life.”
“They've turned into begging lobbyists at best. Most of these guys for the entirety of their life have been the best athlete at what they have done. Now, they get in the NFL, and they are totally dependent on the offensive coordinator to call a pass play, choose you to be the primary receiver and then have the quarterback throw you the ball. They become salesman. After awile, they figure out how to get attention.”
“I don't think they would attack a man this way, ... They're demeaning what she has achieved in her life. It's an over-the-top attack that I don't believe you'd see on a man or a married woman.”
“If I could be half the person he is, I'd have a successful life.”
“I've never seen anything like that in my life.”
“That's pretty good for somebody who's never played goalie in her life.”
“My Turn is the distilled bathwater of Mrs. Reagan's life. It is for the most part sweetish, with a tart edge of rebuke, but disappointingly free of dirt or particulate matter of any kind.”
“In sci-fi convention, life-forms that hadn't developed space travel were mere prehistory -- horse-shoe crabs of the cosmic scene -- and something of the humiliation of being stuck on a provincial planet in a galactic backwater has stayed with me ever since.”
“I speak only of truth, love, life, death and God”
“The idea is to show remorse and change your life, and that's what he's trying to do.”
“You live, enjoy life and suffer according to that belief. What you believe, you live; or you do not believe it. ”
“I was loved unconditionally. If I could live my life over again, I would change nothing. To this day, I still treasure those years.”
“It was very emotional. He cried like a baby. Actually, it's been sort of a life saver. This has meant so much to him.”
“The only time I left was to vote, give blood, or go to the doctor. This way of life forced you to go slow, to seek a deeper peace, to see every person's goodness.”
“I admire the way he lives his life,”
“a true partner for (Yitzhak Rabin) all along his life, and the woman that carried the torch of the peace process since her husband was assassinated.”
“The Surreal Life has become a brand and a franchise. There's a lot of favorites.”
“My life is really a history of observing forms and taking in imagery. I don't mean in a photographic way, I mean in a way of feeling them structurally.”
“I've never got close to getting hit in my life. If you're watching the game that won't happen, will it?”
“Spirituality is where people find meaning in their life. It's something higher than themselves, though not necessarily attached to religion.”
“[Imagination] is best fed by reality, an odd diet for something nonexistent; there are few details of daily life and its broad range of emotional context that can't be transformed into food for the imagination.”
“That's a deep change in priorities. People are much less political today. They have found other values of life. We are developing normal attitudes, a normal set of priorities. We are growing out of our childhood.”
“Money is very important. It is almost impossible to live without it and not everything in life can be bought and today's result was testimony to that.”
“In real life, of course, it is the hare that wins. Every time. Look around you.”
“It's a destination. The stress and pressure of daily life vanish when you walk into that room.”
“I wouldn't have the energy to protest like her. Grieving wipes you out, it takes your life away. But even if I had the energy and I was against the war, I would think I was dishonoring what my daughter gave her life for. She believed she was doing a good thing.”
“McVeigh already got his punishment, and Nichols will be in prison for the rest of his life. Let this guy get out and get on with his life.”
“Read no history: nothing but biography, for that is life without theory.”
“Next to knowing when to seize an opportunity, the most important thing in life is to know when to forego an advantage.”
“We realize how important life is together, and you can't get time back.”
“I have heard that he said he was not going to spend the rest of his life in prison, that he was going to kill himself.”
“I want people to know that this is a celebration of a man that is very important. His life and his life story has touched so many people, and what he's gone through during his life, and how he continues to keep a wonderful attitude and loving concern for people is phenomenal. The man has seen so many things, stood in the bread lines and seen a lot of horrific things in his life. It has not marred or tarnished his view on the world.”
“I should love to do a novel... about one abnormal character seeing present-day life, very ordinary life, yet arresting through it, abnormality, until at the end the reader sees, and with little reluctance, that he is not abnormal at all, and that the main character might as well be himself.”
“Where we grew up was rural country. It was a good community, mostly church-going farmers. We enjoyed life. But there was a struggle going on, and our parents were working hard.”
“I have yet to hear the first person say at the end of my life I want to have a politician settle it,”
“She was a spiritual leader, not a celebrity, who I feel gave her life, as Martin gave, to service mankind.”
“That cricket is today taken for granted as a natural part of the Australian way of life is in no small measure due to his influence.”
“We're just happy that we've still got life left. Once you get to this point of the season, it's all about surviving and advancing.”
“It was his life and we weren't going to stop him. We just wanted to be sure that was what was in his heart. There's no doubt. In fact, we would have been surprised if he hadn't joined.”
“I was like, man, I love this. This is what I want to do for the rest of my life.”
“In civilized life, where the happiness and indeed almost the existence of man, depends on the opinion of his fellow men. He is constantly acting a studied part.”
“As a specialist in the field who's devoted his life to the study of cancer and genetics but also to education, I think it's amazing. When you go out looking at references in the community, you see multiple authors will cite work that he's done.”
“Nothing in life is certain except death and taxes”
“Children who receive the child support they're due have many better outcomes in life. They tend to do better in school, don't get involved in juvenile crime and have higher educational achievements.”
“I should have no objection to go over the same life from its beginning to the end: requesting only the advantage authors have, of correcting in a second edition the faults of the first.”
“It's the worst day of any parent's life when they get that visit from a guy in uniform talking about their kid. For our family it has been life-altering. But more than that you find out that the bravery with which these kids faced the enemy in Iraq is really doubled or more by the bravery that they show while recovering from their injuries. Our family is one of the lucky ones. Our son is alive.”
“I'm actually very happy in my life.”
“Being a gentleman is the number one priority, the chief question integral to our national life.”
“There is nothing more important in my life than being a father. I will never allow any of my career choices or aspirations to threaten this bond.”
“Dr Weiss, at forty, knew that her life had been ruined by literature.”
“My mom has diabetes, my daddy died with cancer. That's life.”
“We just want him to get the help he needs in prison and to go on with his life.”
“Sara is the kind of artist I could listen to every day for the rest of my life and, honestly, never grow tired of. The other day there was something hanging over our house – just heaviness – and I went over and put on 'Conversations,' and it totally changed the atmosphere in the room. Her music welcomes Jesus into a room without it seeming forced or contrived. … There's such a sweet brokenness and honesty in her music that makes you want to live like that and see the Christ-ward life like she does.”
“Zero of Animal Life probably about 300 fathoms.”
“The church was the center of her life.”
“I've spent half my life making money for other people to retire and send their kids to college, ... I'm looking forward to using my skill in making money for this new pursuit.”
“Oh threats of Hell and Hopes of Paradise! One thing at least is certain This Life flies; One thing is certain and the rest is Lies; The Flower that once has blown forever dies”
“Neither of us entered marriage thinking it wouldn't be a strain. Life has strains in it, and he's the person I want to strain with.”
“I would lose weight if I had to. I love my life. My life is more important than football or anything else.”
“The airplane has had a bog impact on my life.”
“The Wine of Life keeps oozing drop by drop, The Leaves of Life keep falling one by one”
“All these names are bigger-than-life names, ... When you see their actual letters and their notebooks, it puts a real stamp of humanity on these people.”
“But the life is hard. I started when I was 4 years old and never stopped.”
“There are things you've always assumed - or heard your entire life - and some of them turn out to be just plain untrue.”
“College is a challenging time of life for most people. You're in a very different environment, you're working hard and your social skills are being tested in a new way. Developing good self-care habits and being active is the most important thing.”
“I think we've tended to sort of mythologize these people, and not really understand that life in the 18th century wasn't so very different than it is now. The more we appreciate the fact that they are like us, perhaps the more likely we are to go back to the lessons that they teach us.”
“It's hard when you're running for your life, and all you see is black jerseys coming from everywhere. You can be open all day long, but when you try to stop and throw, you might get your head taken off.”
“He's just an ordinary guy like the rest of us, who had a tremendously fruitful life. But nothing he accomplished was something that was outside the realm of any one of us.”
“Excellence in health means devoting your life to ending poverty.”
“I have had many wonderful opportunities, ... My life as a musician didn't end when Helmet broke up. I just started to explore.”
“Life is a lot easier when you play badly and then all of a sudden you get in contention and win one. No one gets on your back. When you finish runner-up seven times, everyone is asking, 'Why aren't you winning?' It's much more fun when you jump into a win out of the blue. It's a much tougher game when you play consistently well.”
“Are you complete in yourself? [The root] answers, "No, my life is in the trunk and the branches and the leaves. Keep the branches stripped of leaves and I shall die." So it is with the great tree of being. Nothing is completely and merely individual.”
“It's hard when you're running for your life, and all you see is black jerseys coming from everywhere, ... You can be open all day long, but when you try to stop and throw, you might get your head taken off.”
“It boils down to a bunch of lessons I learned early on in my life from Frank Carney. Lessons about being different, about standing out from the competition. Lessons about not worrying what the competition is doing, just being the best you can. Everything else will take care of itself.”
“I've never seen that much money in my life.”
“With leadership comes some wonderful perks. … But that good stuff ruins more leaders than anything I've seen in my life. Without character, folks, we can't lead.”
“The student population is at a relatively good time of life in terms of health, strength and vitality,”
“Staying with Jim was the result of a very fortunate time in my life. I really had two first choices of where I wanted to be, with Jim or with the Mariners, a first-class organization to work for, ... at least one of the top candidates.”
“It was a very enjoyable part of my life,”
“It's beyond its five-year contract life time. There are minor problems but there are no failure problems with it.”
“There's a pattern that is noxious and toxic to the traditional American way of life. This is not good for American people. You're losing food safety and property rights simultaneously. And the beneficiaries of this are not human beings with a conscious. They're corporate boardroom financial reports.”
“If you expose the meat to (carbon monoxide), you get extra storage life out of it and it's better for the store and industry in terms of return.”
“The saddest failures in life are those that come from not putting forth the power and will to succeed.”
“What made Wellington Mara was his faith and his family, ... He has run the race of life, and he has won. Wellington Mara was a giant in every sense of the word.”
“I'm going to be honest - I just don't see me doing the rest of my life in jail. I'm the type that would maybe go get a couple bags of heroin or something, shoot 'em up, just lay down and go to sleep.”
“I was going to be in jail the rest of my life, so I might as well try something to get out.”
“That's life of being a mid-major.”
“Oh these deceits are strong almost as life, / Last night I dreamt I was in the labyrinth, / And woke far on. I did not know the place.”
“just as one sun illuminates this entire world, similarly the creator illumines [or gives life to] the entire creation.”
“This would have to be the toughest moment of my life, whether to swim an event at the Olympic Games or to look after one of your best mates.”
“You will not need to change your life according to it, it will be changed of its own accord. ”
“[Friends] said it was the up and coming thing. And it makes your life easy, so here we are.”
“This is indeed a historic moment in the life of the church of New Orleans, indeed for the whole city of New Orleans, ... This structure which harbors the soul of the city has been brought back to life. Thanks be to God.”
“Winning solves a lot of problems. As far as changing who you are this late in your life, it is hard to do. He's still a character, and that's some of the reasons why he's so creative and dynamic.”
“Our characters never know who or what they will be dealing with on any given case. They live a life of uncertainty and not a little fear.”
“Always like to look on the optimistic side of life, but I am realistic enough to know that life is a complex matter. Walt Disney Every decision you make is a mistake.”
“They want to win and they want to be in Boston. Sometimes life isn't fair.”
“Allan is an extraordinary guy. He pays attention to detail, perhaps as much as anyone I've ever known in life.”
“A lot of people don't want a million-dollar house. They just want to live a simple life and catch fish and make a living.”
“The beauty of the club is the way it combines a fun, real-life structure for learning IT-related skills with the development of a whole set of wider transferable skills, from project management to teamwork and evaluation. The girls absolutely love going to the club and have been its biggest advocate within school by spreading the word.”
“I'm excited to be part of something that will have a 50 to 100-year life.”
“Ironically, what he thought was a mission to bring life into this world cost him his own life.”
“I learned how to run a good business and be successful in life.”
“We're giving you one hour a day more of your life. What is that worth to you? To a lot of people, it would be worth a lot.”
“Dining Out for Life is a hallmark in our AIDS work.”
“The sibling relationships in this book are profoundly affecting. The book combines the shrewd, detailed portrait of everyday life that Anne Tyler excels at, with a really poignant exploration of how loss can affect love that Dave Eggers's memoir did so memorably.”
“They'll say the bank requires you to get credit life insurance. They'll tell you the bank requires you to get this extended warranty.”
“Reason is the life of the law; nay, the common law itself is nothing else but reason - the law which is perfection of reason.”
“If you care about trends and ideas or the words and images that bring them to life, then you know magazines represent a critical and highly-engaging form of media.”
“These issues are on the radar screen of baby boomers. They are concerned about life changes of their parents or other family members.”
“At that time in my life (1980-81) I was going through some turmoil in my family life. He grabbed a hold of me and put the strong-arm on me.”
“Playing with him has given me an opportunity to live a pretty good life. I've had some 30-goal seasons, and that's because of him.”
“Bob is TV history. He will be missed by so many friends for his life and talent. The fun, the laughter and joy will continue forever.”
“Whoever desires this present life, We hasten to him therein what We please for whomsoever We desire, then We assign to him the hell; he shall enter it despised, driven away.”
“This is because they love this world's life more than the hereafter, and because Allah does not guide the unbelieving people.”
“Since I've had 11 (surgeries) in my life and I've always come through fine, this is nothing new for me.”
“There's a lot of things in life we take for granted. Kids in New York City never see stars because there's too much light in the city.”
“And Allah has sent down water from the cloud and therewith given life to the earth after its death; most surely there is a sign in this for a people who would listen.”
“Surely those who do not hope in Our meeting and are pleased with this world's life and are content with it, and those who are heedless of Our communications: / (As for) those, their abode is the fire because of what they earned.”
“Is he who was dead then We raised him to life and made for him a light by which he walks among the people, like him whose likeness is that of one in utter darkness whence he cannot come forth? Thus what they did was made fair seeming to the unbelievers.”
“It juices up our guys. It gives you momentum. It gives you life. It makes your team feel like it's controlling the line of scrimmage.”
“Lawsuits - and frivolous lawsuits - are just sapping the life out of the people who perform the services and deliver the goods for the rest of the citizenry in the State of Montana.”
“Unfortunately, hurricanes are a way of life here in Florida, and restoration is a cost of doing business.”
“Everyone looks forward to rehearsal night as different from the rest of life.”
“And leave those who have taken their religion for a play and an idle sport, and whom this world's life has deceived, and remind (them) thereby lest a soul should be given up to destruction for what it has earned; it shall not have besides Allah any guardian nor an intercessor, and if it should seek to give every compensation, it shall not be accepted from it; these are they who shall be given up to destruction for what they earned; they shall have a drink of boiling water and a painful chastisement because they disbelieved.”
“And this world's life is naught but a play and an idle sport and certainly the abode of the hereafter is better for those who guard (against evil); do you not then understand? / We know indeed that what they say certainly grieves you, but surely they do not call you a liar; but the unjust deny the communications of Allah.”
“I don't think it would be good for me to have sex at this age. It might ruin my life and education.”
“She didn't want to go outside. She was scared for her life.”
“Rest assured that whatever station of life we are placed, princely or lowly, it contains the lessons and experiences necessary at the moment for our evolution, and gives us the best advantage for the development of ourselves.”
“It's been somewhat of a tumultuous season despite being 21-1 at this point. That's everyday life at New London and we know how to deal with that and move on.”
“By your life! they were blindly wandering on in their intoxication.”
“And most surely We bring to life and cause to die and We are the heirs.”
“They have destroyed my life, ... My hand swelled up. My hands were as big as boxing gloves. My fingers were fat, my fingernails, as you can see, are deformed -- and this is after 34 years.”
“Allah confirms those who believe with the sure word in this world's life and in the hereafter, and Allah causes the unjust to go astray, and Allah does what He pleases.”
“They shall have chastisement in this world's life, and the chastisement of the hereafter is certainly more grievous, and they shall have no protector against Allah.”
“Touch is critical for life, even as adults. Very few people get touched often enough so touching can bring you back to yourself and help you connect with another person.”
“My life is dedicated to that man. I hear from his mom and family that's the only thing that keeps them going, is knowing that their son's heart - the heart is really the most symbolic organ I think - is living on and pumping on and that's the only thing that keeps them going.”
“This is because Allah is the Truth and because He gives life to the dead and because He has power over all things / And because the hour is coming, there is no doubt about it; and because Allah shall raise up those who are in the graves.”
“Whoever thinks that Allah will not assist him in this life and the hereafter, let him stretch a rope to the ceiling, then let him cut (it) off, then let him see if his struggle will take away that at which he is enraged.”
“Then there is the chastity-belt phenomenon, where her love handles have been his excuse for their dismal love life , or he fears that if she loses the weight, he won't be good enough for her anymore.”
“Parents want their kids to be prepared for real life and they want them to have the facts and the information that they need to be prepared to face the situations they might face.”
“Wealth and children are an adornment of the life of this world; and the ever-abiding, the good works, are better with your Lord in reward and better in expectation.”
“And set forth to them parable of the life of this world: like water which We send down from the cloud so the herbage of the earth becomes tangled on account of it, then it becomes dry broken into pieces which the winds scatter; and Allah is the holder of power over all things.”
“And ordain for us good in this world's life and m the hereafter, for surely we turn to Thee. He said: (As for) My chastisement, I will afflict with it whom I please, and My mercy encompasses all things; so I will ordain it (specially) for those who guard (against evil) and pay the poor-rate, and those who believe in Our communications.”
“Biology has taught us that if you have water and energy and some organic compounds you can produce life even in the most extreme environments. Basically, life can get a foothold almost anywhere. This forebodes well for the possibility that life existed on Mars sometime in the past or even perhaps today.”
“It just wasn't very good. We're playing good, and all of a sudden the wheels come off. That's life.”
“The only person who can guarantee your life is you. You never know if your husband is going to die, lose his job, become disabled; we want these girls to be prepared for whatever life brings them so they can have productive lives.”
“But none of these things move me, neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy, and the ministry, which I have received of the Lord Jesus, to testify the gospel of the grace of God.”
“For we which live are alway delivered unto death for Jesus' sake, that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our mortal flesh.”
“If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable.”
“And the commandment, which was ordained to life, I found to be unto death.”
“One thing is sure, bankruptcy court is unlike any other law — it really can have real life implications for everyone.”
“Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, according to the promise of life which is in Christ Jesus, / To Timothy, my dearly beloved son: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.”
“For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God.”
“For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made me free from the law of sin and death.”
“Now this is eternal life: that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou has sent. [Jesus -- John 17:3]”
“I have set before you life and death, blessing and cursing: Therefore choose life. [Deuteronomy 30:19]”
“All that man has will he give for his life.”
“A 40 Day Spiritual Journey to a More Generous Life”
“Once one planet comes down with life, they all get it.”
“There's an impetus in the Bible toward the protection of the innocent, protection for the weak, respect for life, respect for God's creation.”
“Lead a man to fish, feed him for a day. Teach a man to fish, feed him for life.”
“And he said unto his disciples, Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat; neither for the body, what ye shall put on.”
“Those who believe and guarded (against evil): / They shall have good news in this world's life and in the hereafter; there is no changing the words of Allah; that is the mighty achievement.”
“For as the Father hath life in himself; so hath he given to the Son to have life in himself; / And hath given him authority to execute judgment also, because he is the Son of man.”
“Whoso eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life; and I will raise him up at the last day.”
“And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent.”
“Life isn't stable. Stability is unnatural. The only stable society is the police state. You can have a free society or you can have a stable society. You can't have both. Take your choice. As for me, I'll choose a free, organic society over a rigid, artificial society any day.”
“He gives life and causes death, and to Him you shall be brought back.”
“It's a pragmatic approach that more and more real-life teams are taking.”
“Jesus answered him, Wilt thou lay down thy life for my sake? Verily, verily, I say unto thee, The cock shall not crow, till thou hast denied me thrice.”
“These are they who buy the life of this world for the hereafter, so their chastisement shall not be lightened nor shall they be helped.”
“No man shall take the nether or the upper millstone to pledge: for he taketh a man's life to pledge.”
“How do you deny Allah and you were dead and He gave you life? Again He will cause you to die and again bring you to life, then you shall be brought back to Him.”
“What we do on the show and real life are different, ... On the show we try to give the impression of what the room should be or could be.”
“And if Christ be in you, the body is dead because of sin; but the Spirit is life because of righteousness (Romans 8:10).”
“And it shall be with him, and he shall read therein all the days of his life: that he may learn to fear the LORD his God, to keep all the words of this law and these statutes, to do them (Deuteronomy 17:19).”
“And he had power to give life unto the image of the beast, that the image of the beast should both speak, and cause that as many as would not worship the image of the beast should be killed.”
“And after three days and an half the spirit of life from God entered into them, and they stood upon their feet; and great fear fell upon them which saw them.”
“Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the city.”
“Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer: and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him.”
“No man that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life; that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier.”
“And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire.”
“I always said that when you're balancing your life, the kids are not part of that balance ... once you bring kids into this world, you have to make sure you're there for them.”
“The life of this world is made to seem fair to those who disbelieve, and they mock those who believe, and those who guard (against evil) shall be above them on the day of resurrection; and Allah gives means of subsistence to whom he pleases without measure.”
“And among men is he whose speech about the life of this world causes you to wonder, and he calls on Allah to witness as to what is in his heart, yet he is the most violent of adversaries.”
“Greet Priscilla and Aquila my helpers in Christ Jesus: / Who have for my life laid down their own necks: unto whom not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles.”
“And now I exhort you to be of good cheer: for there shall be no loss of any man's life among you, but of the ship.”
“And there is life for you in (the law of) retaliation, O men of understanding, that you may guard yourselves.”
“For it is not a vain thing for you; because it is your life: and through this thing ye shall prolong your days in the land, whither ye go over Jordan to possess it.”
“And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him, whose names are not written in the book of life of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world.”
“Therefore let those fight in the way of Allah, who sell this world's life for the hereafter; and whoever fights in the way of Allah, then be he slain or be he victorious, We shall grant him a mighty reward.”
“And thine eye shall not pity; but life shall go for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot.”
“Yea, his soul draweth near unto the grave, and his life to the destroyers.”
“Thou wilt prolong the king's life: and his years as many generations.”
“None that go unto her return again, neither take they hold of the paths of life.”
“Lest thou shouldest ponder the path of life, her ways are moveable, that thou canst not know them.”
“He keepeth back his soul from the pit, and his life from perishing by the sword.”
“The LORD is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? the LORD is the strength of my life; of whom shall I be afraid? / When the wicked, even mine enemies and my foes, came upon me to eat up my flesh, they stumbled and fell.”
“It means the government will check through the entire case: his past, services to the US Army, his life in Venezuela, his future residence and sponsor.”
“Gather not my soul with sinners, nor my life with bloody men: / In whose hands is mischief, and their right hand is full of bribes.”
“For the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles, when we walked in lasciviousness, lusts, excess of wine, revellings, banquetings, and abominable idolatries: / Wherein they think it strange that ye run not with them to the same excess of riot, speaking evil of you: / Who shall give account to him that is ready to judge the quick and the dead.”
“For he shall not much remember the days of his life; because God answereth him in the joy of his heart.”
“Behold! you are they who (may) plead for them in this world's life, but who will plead for them with Allah on the resurrection day, or who shall be their protector? / And whoever does evil or acts unjustly to his soul, then asks forgiveness of Allah, he shall find Allah Forgiving, Merciful.”
“And death shall be chosen rather than life by all the residue of them that remain of this evil family, which remain in all the places whither I have driven them, saith the LORD of hosts.”
“A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast: but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.”
“For they are life unto those that find them, and health to all their flesh.”
“O LORD, by these things men live, and in all these things is the life of my spirit: so wilt thou recover me, and make me to live.”
“For the commandment is a lamp; and the law is light; and reproofs of instruction are the way of life: / To keep thee from the evil woman, from the flattery of the tongue of a strange woman.”
“In the light of the king's countenance is life; and his favour is as a cloud of the latter rain.”
“For who knoweth what is good for man in this life, all the days of his vain life which he spendeth as a shadow? for who can tell a man what shall be after him under the sun?”
“He is in the way of life that keepeth instruction: but he that refuseth reproof erreth.”
“For the enemy hath persecuted my soul; he hath smitten my life down to the ground; he hath made me to dwell in darkness, as those that have been long dead.”
“Know that this world's life is only sport and play and gaiety and boasting among yourselves, and a vying in the multiplication of wealth and children, like the rain, whose causing the vegetation to grow, pleases the husbandmen, then it withers away so that you will see it become yellow, then it becomes dried up and broken down; and in the hereafter is a severe chastisement and (also) forgiveness from Allah and (His) pleasure; and this world's life is naught but means of deception.”
“The labour of the righteous tendeth to life: the fruit of the wicked to sin.”
“My father worked for governments all his life as an engineer and public works director.”
“As righteousness tendeth to life: so he that pursueth evil pursueth it to his own death.”
“She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life.”
“And many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt.”
“Know that Allah gives life to the earth after its death; indeed, We have made the communications clear to you that you may understand.”
“And the men answered her, Our life for yours, if ye utter not this our business. And it shall be, when the LORD hath given us the land, that we will deal kindly and truly with thee.”
“Or shall man have what he wishes? / Nay! for Allah is the hereafter and the former (life).”
“O LORD, thou hast pleaded the causes of my soul; thou hast redeemed my life.”
“They have a short life span.”
“I still don't think it happened. It's a big shock even now. Going from the best shape of my life to not even being able to walk was really strange. It took forever to get used to, and it still hasn't even set in.”
“We have people from all walks of life.”
“Therefore now, O LORD, take, I beseech thee, my life from me; for it is better for me to die than to live.”
“And these are the days of the years of Abraham's life which he lived, an hundred threescore and fifteen years.”
“My covenant was with him of life and peace; and I gave them to him for the fear wherewith he feared me, and was afraid before my name.”
“And these shall go away into everlasting punishment: but the righteous into life eternal.”
“And if thy foot offend thee, cut it off: it is better for thee to enter halt into life, than having two feet to be cast into hell, into the fire that never shall be quenched: / Where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched.”
“I wanted to do something for the community I lived in all my life,”
“And a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? / And Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? none is good, save one, that is, God.”
“As the Father knoweth me, even so know I the Father: and I lay down my life for the sheep.”
“And I know that his commandment is life everlasting: whatsoever I speak therefore, even as the Father said unto me, so I speak.”
“What have we lost? Well, we've lost a scientist who is really concerned about the quality of life for people who live in earthquake country. We have terabytes of information Tony gathered in the '80's and '90's (about earthquakes and land movement). That will be just part of Tony's legacy.”
“And when I saw that ye delivered me not, I put my life in my hands, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and the LORD delivered them into my hand: wherefore then are ye come up unto me this day, to fight against me? / Then Jephthah gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim: and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye Gileadites are fugitives of Ephraim among the Ephraimites, and among the Manassites.”
“It gives meaning and value to your life and also helps you have a better understanding of who you are and where you came from.”
“There shall not any man be able to stand before thee all the days of thy life: as I was with Moses, so I will be with thee: I will not fail thee, nor forsake thee.”
“Genes are the blueprints for proteins, but proteins are where the action is in human life and health.”
“And God said, Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creature that hath life, and fowl that may fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven.”
“And Sarah was an hundred and seven and twenty years old: these were the years of the life of Sarah.”
“In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, the seventeenth day of the month, the same day were all the fountains of the great deep broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened.”
“And he shewed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb.”
“And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life: and David was in the wilderness of Ziph in a wood.”
“It's a family; lacrosse is not like any other sport, it's more of a way of life.”
“Otherwise I should have wrought falsehood against mine own life: for there is no matter hid from the king, and thou thyself wouldest have set thyself against me.”
“My whole life, I was the underdog. I've got God at the head of my life, so I wasn't worried about being the smallest. I just try to play smarter than everybody else, and work hard.”
“And it came to pass, as he was telling the king how he had restored a dead body to life, that, behold, the woman, whose son he had restored to life, cried to the king for her house and for her land. And Gehazi said, My lord, O king, this is the woman, and this is her son, whom Elisha restored to life.”
“I have suffered from depression for most of my life. It is an illness.”
“And he said, About this season, according to the time of life, thou shalt embrace a son. And she said, Nay, my lord, thou man of God, do not lie unto thine handmaid.”
“It's karma. All Johnny Pun did was good. His whole life was about doing good for others.”
“And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel: for I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved.”
“The life of this world is only idle sport and play, and if you believe and guard (against evil) He will give you your rewards, and will not ask of you your possessions.”
“Hereby perceive we the love of God, because he laid down his life for us: and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren.”
“They've got their rules, and they can't deviate from them, but it's life over limb.”
“Anytime you've got activities going on in your community that are going to result in quality-of-life offerings, it can't be anything but an added benefit.”
“All four of the vectors in mobile computing are improved, including speed, battery life, wireless connection load balancing, and security.”
“And he said, I will certainly return unto thee according to the time of life; and, lo, Sarah thy wife shall have a son. And Sarah heard it in the tent door, which was behind him.”
“It's real frustrating. Probably the worst year of my life.”
“And the LORD said unto Satan, Behold, he is in thine hand; but save his life.”
“And he strikes out a likeness for Us and forgets his own creation. Says he: Who will give life to the bones when they are rotten? / Say: He will give life to them Who brought them into existence at first, and He is cognizant of all creation / He Who has made for you the fire (to burn) from the green tree, so that with it you kindle (fire).”
“Wherefore is light given to him that is in misery, and life unto the bitter in soul; / Which long for death, but it cometh not; and dig for it more than for hid treasures; / Which rejoice exceedingly, and are glad, when they can find the grave? / Why is light given to a man whose way is hid, and whom God hath hedged in? / For my sighing cometh before I eat, and my roarings are poured out like the waters.”
“And when he saw that, he arose, and went for his life, and came to Beersheba, which belongeth to Judah, and left his servant there.”
“And God said unto him, Because thou hast asked this thing, and hast not asked for thyself long life; neither hast asked riches for thyself, nor hast asked the life of thine enemies; but hast asked for thyself understanding to discern judgment; / Behold, I have done according to thy words: lo, I have given thee a wise and an understanding heart; so that there was none like thee before thee, neither after thee shall any arise like unto thee.”
“I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me”
“Take good hold of instruction and don't let her go, keep her for she is your life.”
“Upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the days of thy life”
“He that findeth his life shall lose it: and he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it”
“So are the ways of everyone who is greedy for gain; it takes away the life of its owners”
“Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life”
“Surely We give life to the dead, and We write down what they have sent before and their footprints, and We have recorded everything in a clear writing.”
“We know that we have passed from death into life, because we love... [1 John 3:14]”
“Look then at the signs of Allah's mercy, how He gives life to the earth after its death, most surely He will raise the dead to life; and He has power over all things.”
“His whole goal in life was to never repeat what had happened to him early on. He wanted above all to be a good husband, a great father, an exceptional Marine, and he was succeeding at all of those.”
“Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me (John 5:39).”
“The fear of the LORD is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death (Proverbs 14:27).”
“In him was life; and the life was the light of men (John 1:4).”
“It was the lowest point of my life and I needed help,”
“He gave so much of his life to public service, but his family always came first. I'm very proud he was my friend.”
“They know the outward of this world's life, but of the hereafter they are absolutely heedless.”
“And, behold, as thy life was much set by this day in mine eyes, so let my life be much set by in the eyes of the LORD, and let him deliver me out of all tribulation (1 Samuel 26:24).”
“And this is the record, that God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is in his Son (1 John 5:11).”
“And if you ask them Who is it that sends down water from the clouds, then gives life to the earth with it after its death, they will certainly say, Allah. Say: All praise is due to Allah. Nay, most of them do not understand.”
“One must choose, in life, between making money and spending it. There's no time to do both.”
“He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life: and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life; but the wrath of God abideth on him (John 3:36).”
“He that followeth after righteousness and mercy findeth life, righteousness, and honour (Proverbs 21:21).”
“He preserveth not the life of the wicked: but giveth right to the poor (Job 36:6).”
“For it is the life of all flesh; the blood of it is for the life thereof: therefore I said unto the children of Israel, Ye shall eat the blood of no manner of flesh: for the life of all flesh is the blood thereof: whosoever eateth it shall be cut off”
“For his anger endureth but a moment; in his favour is life: weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning (Psalms 30:5).”
“For as the Father hath life in himself; so hath he given to the Son to have life in himself (John 5:26).”
“For by me thy days shall be multiplied, and the years of thy life shall be increased (Proverbs 9:11).”
“For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded is life and peace (Romans 8:6).”
“For the bread of God is he which cometh down from heaven, and giveth life unto the world (John 6:33).”
“For the life of the flesh is in the blood: and I have given it to you upon the altar to make an atonement for your souls: for it is the blood that maketh an atonement for the soul (Leviticus 17:11).”
“For who so findeth me findeth life, and shall obtain favour of the Lord (Proverbs 8:35).”
“For whosoever will save his life shall lose it; but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake and the gospel's, the same shall save it (Mark 8:35).”
“And whatever things you have been given are only a provision of this world's life and its adornment, and whatever is with Allah is better and more lasting; do you not then understand? / Is he to whom We have promised a goodly promise which he shall meet with like him whom We have provided with the provisions of this world's life, then on the day of resurrection he shall be of those who are brought up? / And on the day when He will call them and say: Where are those whom you deemed to be My associates? / Those against whom the sentence has become confirmed will say: Our Lord! these are they whom we caused to err; we caused them to err as we ourselves did err; to Thee we declare ourselves to be clear (of them); they never served Us.”
“Few and evil have the days of the years of my life been”
“I've been waiting all my life for this opportunity, and I'm pretty excited. I'm not going to put too much pressure on myself. I'm just going to do what I've done in the past.”
“Thou hast granted me life and favour, and thy visitation hath preserved my spirit (Job 10:12).”
“I hit the best shot of my life so far. I was really happy.”
“Though I were perfect, yet would I not know my soul: I would despise my life (Job 9:21).”
“O Prophet! say to your wives: If you desire this world's life and its adornment, then come, I will give you a provision and allow you to depart a goodly departing / And if you desire Allah and His Apostle and the latter abode, then surely Allah has prepared for the doers of good among you a mighty reward.”
“We know that we have passed from death unto life, because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death (1 John 3:14).”
“O Prophet! say to your wives: If you desire this world's life and its adornment, then come, I will give you a provision and allow you to depart a goodly departing / And if you desire Allah and His Apostle and the latter abode, then surely Allah has prepared for the doers of good among you a mighty reward.”
“Skin for skin, yea, all that a man hath will he give for his life”
“You get to a certain age, and you start to rethink your life and rethink your priorities, ... Traveling to exotic locales like Romania is not as appealing as it used to be. When I was younger, you would go on a set and you would have affairs and you'd drink and it was just like summer camp. When you get older, it's like, 'Uh, I'm in another hotel room, in another town I really don't want to be in.' ”
“I will not blot out his name out of the book of life”
“They die in youth, and their life is among the unclean.”
“What is my strength, that I should hope? and what is mine end, that I should prolong my life? / Is my strength the strength of stones? or is my flesh of brass? / Is not my help in me? and is wisdom driven quite from me? / To him that is afflicted pity should be shewed from his friend; but he forsaketh the fear of the Almighty.”
“You get to a certain age and you start to rethink your life and rethink your priorities, ... Traveling to exotic locales like Romania is not as appealing as it used to be. When I was younger, you would go on a set and you would have affairs and you'd drink and it was just like summer camp. When you get older it's like, `Uh, I'm in another hotel room, in another town I really don't want to be in.'”
“Cory loved all life had to offer. Most of all, his idol, his best mate, his father, Rex.”
“You've got a buzz here. You've got a quality of life. This is a nice place to live. People have choices . . . and they're choosing here.”
“He asked life of thee, and thou gavest it him, even length of days for ever and ever.”
“You get to a certain age and you start to rethink your life and rethink your priorities,”
“We are your guardians in this world's life and in the hereafter, and you shall have therein what your souls desire and you shall have therein what you ask for: / A provision from the Forgiving, the Merciful.”
“Most surely We help Our apostles, and those who believe, in this world's life and on the day when the witnesses shall stand / The day on which their excuse shall not benefit the unjust, and for them is curse and for them is the evil abode.”
“Our task is nothing less than to protect that special Colorado way of life.”
“You wait your entire life to play in front of a crowd like this.”
“To be around YB, you'd think he's led the most charmed life. Without having walked a mile in his shoes, I'm afraid that, no matter what I say, I may shortchange the hardship he's gone through to get to this point. His perseverance is remarkable.”
“a man of dignity, honor and integrity, who devoted his life to bringing peace to Sri Lanka.”
“Between Worlds: The Making of an American Life.”
“Nay! you prefer the life of this world, / While the hereafter is better and more lasting.”
“Most surely He is able to return him (to life).”
“It's so different from normal life. But it's really fun and exciting and so I like it a lot.”
“Life companies have the ability to offer flexibility in terms and structure that CMBS, just by the nature of the market, can't offer. Life companies are not winning business because they are giving that last dollar, but they can be competitive on pricing and structure of terms.”
“It's not an easy decision because tennis has been my life. But I've taken this decision with my head not with my heart. I think I have to be happy because from now on I will be able to dedicate my time to other things.”
“[Working in a factory] was just a really depressing life, and many, many of the people working there had been there for 30, 40 years, and I didn't want to be one of those [people].”
“So he shall be in a life of pleasure, / In a lofty garden, / The fruits of which are near at hand: / Eat and drink pleasantly for what you did beforehand in the days gone by.”
“Surely We give life and cause to die, and to Us is the eventual coming; / The day on which the earth shall cleave asunder under them, they will make haste; that is a gathering together easy to Us.”
“I knew it was going to be all-consuming. It's 24/7. Your life changes. It's a new normal. You have to change your mind-set and just deal with the ups and downs of the new life.”
“Tonight I come to you as a citizen, returning to you in a role I've played most of my life. I join you here in Boston as a foot soldier in the fight for our future, as we nominate a true New England patriot for president,”
“on my life's work, not my life story.”
“I had a real life before I moved to Washington. And I expect to have a real life when I leave.”
“Nay, We gave provision to these and their fathers until life was prolonged to them. Do they not then see that We are visiting the land, curtailing it of its sides? Shall they then prevail? / Say: I warn you only by revelation; and the deaf do not hear the call whenever they are warned.”
“If someone asks you what you did with your life, there is not a better answer than to say I served as an officer in the U.S. Navy.”
“And We prescribed to them in it that life is for life, and eye for eye, and nose for nose, and ear for ear, and tooth for tooth, and (that there is) reprisal in wounds; but he who foregoes it, it shall be an expiation for him; and whoever did not judge by what Allah revealed, those are they that are the unjust.”
“I have done nothing but try to finish the story of my life, ... It was hard enough to live it the first time. It's been awful the second time. And I can't go anywhere. So I feel like I got a long prison sentence and I got furloughed tonight to come see you guys and listen to music.”
“Surely We have created man from a small life-germ uniting (itself): We mean to try him, so We have made him hearing, seeing.”
“He was taken off life support by his family early this morning.”
“Life is about growth. People are not perfect when they're 21 years old.”
“Is not He able to give life to the dead? / There surely came over man a period of time when he was a thing not worth mentioning.”
“Maybe this will save her life.”
“Many jurors are forced to muddle through this life-and-death decision-making process confused about their duty and mired in inaccurate media-based stereotypes. To truly improve the reliability and fairness of the decision-making process in capital cases, overarching reforms would be needed to break down the network of social psychological forces that are at work.”
“Football(soccer) is a matter of life and death, except more important”
“Each one wanted to be the one who teaches her about life.”
“Nay! But you love the present life, / And neglect the hereafter.”
“Allah amplifies and straitens the means of subsistence for whom He pleases; and they rejoice in this world's life, and this world's life is nothing compared with the hereafter but a temporary enjoyment.”
“His style has the desperate jauntiness of an orchestra fiddling away for dear life on a sinking ship.”
“Allah amplifies and straitens the means of subsistence for whom He pleases; and they rejoice in this world's life, and this world's life is nothing compared with the hereafter but a temporary enjoyment.”
“Poor Joe-Joe never got a chance to live a normal life and spent most of his life in an institution. Then he dies this way. The system that allowed this to happen should be held accountable.”
“We haven't had any serious injuries or loss of life, and we'd like to keep it that way,”
“He carried out a life clearly unmatched in public service,”
“I am a physician. My profession is healing. I have devoted my life to attending to the needs of the sick and suffering. . . . In all forms of stem cell research, I see . . . great promise to heal.”
“That was much more dramatic in the newspapers and on the airwaves than it was in real life. Was I concerned? That's hard to say a yes or no answer to. I am human and you hear things from different places. But at no time did I ever feel like he was going to coach someplace else.”
“September 11 impressed upon us that life is a precious gift. Every life has a purpose. And I think we all have a duty to devote at least a small portion of our daily lives to ensuring that neither America nor the world ever forgets September 11.”
“It wasn't the be all and end all of my life.”
“But I'm actually quite shy about my life in person.”
“We're celebrating life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness,”
“Technical computing is crucial to the many discoveries that impact our quality of life; from making safer, more efficient cars and airplanes to addressing global health issues and environmental changes.”
“I have learnt a little more about living in the moment and taking life more as it is supposed to be, just living and seeing where life goes,”
“I actually thought that it would be a little confusing during the same period of your life to be in one meeting when you're trying to make money, and then go to another meeting where you're giving it away.”
“Life goes on. I have to worry about other things. If that's what they think is best, there's nothing I can do about it.”
“Being ready before the storm strikes is sometimes the difference between life and death.”
“If something is going on in my life, it winds up getting into my strip.”
“He was almost in tears because, for the first time in his life, he wasn't getting an opportunity to play. I told him, this is going to come to an end this season. And when it does, your time is here.”
“We had no such things that a family can enjoy. We have bitterness throughout life. I detested the government since the very beginning.”
“I wrote this to try to do something positive with my life. This was a way to right some of the wrongs I've done.”
“[In her best-selling book,] Leap of Faith: Memoirs of an Unexpected Life, ... magic.”
“When you win, it creates unbelievable opportunities in life. It's nothing negative against Florida, but they have to look at these opportunities.”
“We're happy that there are signs of life and improvement (in Illinois), but we're still in the intensive-care unit. It certainly doesn't mean we're over the hump or hill. There's still some work to do.”
“We have more acceptance and credibility from being away for so long. Our songs have a life of their own. It's like having a career without having a career.”
“Monte's someone that attracts a strong sense of camaraderie and appreciation for the life that he's lived. I've been trying to get it completed because this probably will be just one of many (murals) to come. There's no reason why we should stop at this, if they tastefully add to the community to remind us of the past.”
“All my life I've been a symbol,”
“It is necessary to try to surpass one's self always; this occupation ought to last as long as life.”
“We try to show them how to apply scientific principles to solve real-life problems.”
“All my life I've been a symbol,”
“It is necessary to try to surpass one's self always; this occupation ought to last as long as life.”
“The race really changed where I was going with my life.”
“The focus appears to be on overall quality of life rather than numbers. There is a need to redefine our expectations and perhaps begin raising the bar.”
“I'm honestly not so sure what's so intriguing about my life. I'm just like any college student, really.”
“Clear as a crystal... Sharp as a knife...
I feel like I'm in the prime of my life.”
“All of the proceeds will go toward purchasing life-saving cardiac medical equipment that will go to local hospitals, fire stations, police stations and schools.”
“It's always wonderful to come to an event. I know how in my life art has come in and really changed it, so to give these children that opportunity just to come into contact with art.”
“I believe in advertisement and media completely. My art and my personal life are based in it. I think that the art world would probably be a tremendous reservoir for everybody involved in advertising.”
“If you're watching an ad on TV showing a drug that could save your life and you can't afford it, you have a right to be resentful. People are angry about not having access to medicine.”
“Credit cards offer convenience. Credit cards offer emergency life preservers. If you start to use your credit card for daily expenses, and you start paying for pizza at 18 percent interest -- do the math.”
“I just thought here is comedy, here is tragedy. That is the way life is. I just tried to do it true to life.”
“Some people are listening to us. But one life lost is one too many.”
“If you were going to condemn someone to life in prison, you need to know why, to have some motive ... it's not there.”
“He really supports me in whatever I do. He knows it's the biggest decision in my life right now, and he's doing everything to make sure I make the right one.”
“I've never looked back in my life. I don't want to see that stuff. I had blanked out a lot of stuff ... putting my mother in a straitjacket, my father holding her down, screaming.”
“If the life is 12,000 hours, and we replace it at 7,000 hours, we save a lot of money by avoiding expensive repairs, but we lose almost 5,000 hours of life. With this technology, we will monitor the circuits better and use data processing technology to dip into the deep information. If we can find the point in the life of a component that is close to failure, but not yet failed, we could reduce the cost of repair even more.”
“Every team has a limited life and days like today, you can feel like that life has just ended. The fact of the matter is it didn't. There's more games for us to play. For me as a coach, I've got to figure out how to help my kids get better.”
“This will ensure that we lay a solid platform to have responsible road users, as children will be taught life skills related to road safety.”
“With a game like today, you feel that life has just ended. But there's more games left to play. I've got to figure out how to make my kids get better.”
“The Franklin family is devastated by this tragic event, ... Linda's family is shocked by this senseless loss of life and is calling on anyone with any information about this tragedy to contact law enforcement.”
“The Franklin family is devastated by this tragic event. Linda's family is shocked by this senseless loss of life and is calling on anyone with any information about this tragedy to contact law enforcement.”
“Such babies may be exposed to more health risks in later life.”
“You hit a gate less than one every second, so it's risky, you know. You're putting your life at risk there. It's like driving drunk, only there's no rules about it in ski racing.”
“In New Orleans, the funeral traditions are there to remind you that life goes on,”
“We want to provide unfiltered and unbiased consumer education about the impact of what life insurance does, rather than how it works.”
“The only thing I had on my mind was tennis, and sometimes girls, ... My life was all about tennis. My office was the whole world. The word home didn't really exist.”
“The past two years in Russia's life have been full of stormy political events, great laborious work on reforming the economy, ... Soon there were disappointments, too, and unfulfilled hopes. But we've never lost the conviction in the necessity of the transformations we're carrying out.”
“He works very hard at everything he takes on. He has dedicated his life to mountains, mountain geography and the conservation of mountain ecosystems.”
“It's just a whole different life. It's not for everybody.”
“Marcus has been living with pressure all of his life. Because he is Michael Vick's brother, he's had incredible expectations placed on him since he arrived at Virginia Tech. He's going to be fine.”
“There is life after losing. There are things you can do with your life that can make a difference.”
“I've been big all my life.”
“They played very well and we didn't. Life on the road is tough when you don't play well and the other team does. When you're as young as we are, it just snowballs on us.”
“You want to find out if there are other areas in their life that aren't going so well, that maybe they are using pornography to kind of escape,”
“It is, for all intents and purposes, a rest-of-your-life decision, ... I have loved public service, and I have loved being in the United States Senate serving the people of Florida. The question is: is this what I wish to do for the rest of my life or are there other things I want to accomplish.”
“This is a highly anticipated show and it should be. She's a bigger-than-life character,”
“I've never in my life said I didn't want to have children. I did and I do and I will!”
“It starts as a minor inconvenience, but can determine the quality of life. It's a huge quality-of-life issue.”
“There is no reason to even think about life insurance for your child ? unless you're the parents of [former child actor] Macaulay Culkin. Life insurance is supposed to cover the negative economic consequences of premature death.”
“The skills and methods of video games are becoming a part of our life and culture in so many ways that it is impossible to ignore.”
“This ball - this symbol; its it worth a whole man's life?”
“If you have a good name it can help. I've seen a lot of stupid names in my life,”
“Genes are important because they are the blueprints for proteins, but proteins are where the action is in human life and health. This ability to find links between sets of proteins involved in different genetic disorders offers a novel approach for more rapidly identifying new candidate genes involved in human diseases.”
“It's hard to put an image that you see with actual real-life on the field. We tried to be prepared but you can't coach speed. They hit the holes.”
“Janine can give the players guidance and show them the options that might be available in preparing for life after football, while they are at Hawthorn, because you can't live football for 24 hours a day.”
“I'll respect him if he pulls his life together.”
“We get along well. We're all different, but we mostly come from the same walks of life.”
“It made me see the other side of life. It made me realize, I have a chance to do something special, and I need to take advantage of it.”
“Alabama has been providing immediate and life-saving services to our neighbors and affected Alabama citizens in the wake of this disaster, ... Getting vital health-care services to these victims continues to be a priority for our state. The best and most efficient way to accomplish that is to support the state programs and the local health-care providers already in place.”
“You can't escape a component of your life, but you can put it in a place where you're OK with it. You have to be in control (of your life). Not just let tragedy take you down. Good things will happen for you again.”
“I'm expecting some crazy, creative fans. Everyone is saying that they're going to know my life story from when I walk in there. I'm looking forward to seeing what they're going to throw at us and have a good time with it.”
“If everything was going fine, if there was nothing wrong in my life, to me, that would be hard to handle, ... I mean, now, there's two things in my life: helping these people and helping the Packers win.”
“To have tragedies in my life is no different than anyone else, ... It's just that mine are on TV. At times, it's a bit embarrassing and a little bit unfair to other people who suffer the same hardships. ... All I'm concerned about is the health — not only of my family — but everyone else's.”
“Over the life cycle of that airplane, we're absolutely confident we're going to get 50% or more.”
“This has probably been the best four years I've ever had in my life. It's sad to see it go away.”
“It was his life. I think that was when he was most happy.”
“We played our best ball. Life goes on.”
“He would have wanted to take a last lap before leaving this world. Racing has been Mark's whole life.”
“I'm still going to enjoy my life off the pitch and I don't think that has interfered with my life on it. In still playing, my body does not allow me to do some of the stuff I did before. The reality is I can't do the two. But I will still go out for a meal and a glass of wine and smoke a cigarette if I feel like it.”
“I have affirmed his strong stands for life, marriage, and candidly, low taxes.”
“Carlos, having been a point guard his whole life, just has an understanding of where the ball should go. He's going to get the ball to the right people and knows when he's supposed to keep it himself. I don't expect him to go 7-of-11 every night, but he did a very good job tonight.”
“This is a race of life. I get off the bike and I feel alive. That strength makes you thankful for and appreciate the lives of Ashley and all those other people.”
“I've worked my whole life to get to a place like Tennessee.”
“I wish to confess my sins, and I wish Christ to come into my life. ...”
“Parker had the game of his life. And their second-chance shots were huge. They outscored us 18-8 in second-chance shots.”
“I'm doing it the African way and I'm swimming faster than I ever did in my life.”
“He had the game of his life.”
“I've been a starter all my life until now, ... so I'd love the opportunity to finally pitch in the role I'm used to pitching in, and work through the lineup a little, as opposed to getting three outs.”
“That had to have been the three more hectic weeks of my life, getting myself ready to go to Iraq.”
“He was a soldier for this country his whole life. This is long overdue.”
“We lose an important guy in our lineup, but life goes on. Hockey doesn't take priority all the time.”
“It's surreal to see the guys you have been watching all your life and now you have a chance to play against them,”
“We were able to snatch her and without any loss of life.”
“Even in communities without such deep roots, there is more continuity to a way of life than most people realize.”
“Where wise actions are the fruit of life, wise discourse is the pollination.”
“You give me a script, and I'll be ready in the morning. I've been doing it all my life. My first job was at six. I fully believe in the fact that I carry enough information, life knowledge and skill to turn my hand to whatever it is. However, it's a privilege to do the research.”
“I think it's a life changing experience. You can meet someone from around the United States and learn what they go -- they're going through.”
“I think the driving force behind his success was him, his own life story.”
“You'll miss their presence. Maybe we should get a life-size picture of them and put it in front of their locker.”
“This is possibly the most shameful situation I've ever gotten myself in in my life, and I've done some pretty dumb things in my life.”
“I need to get a new life, because I sat and watched The Weather Channel all day determining about low temperatures, high temperatures, medium temperatures.”
“possibly the most shameful situation that I've ever gotten myself in in my life.”
“possibly the most shameful situation that I've ever gotten myself in in my life.”
“Every time I read the script I would get goose bumps, ... It was the idea that this life, this change of fortune, had actually happened. It was real.”
“We saved his life. And we probably saved other people's lives.”
“I work between 'action' and 'cut'. My life doesn't carry on after 'cut' in terms of my relationship with the characters.”
“What Scouting has done for these people. It teaches a lot of basic skills that continue on in your life.”
“Speed is life to an infantryman.”
“We're fortunate. It's a chance ... at least for those who want to do something with the rest of their life.”
“I know every day we had to take him to swim and surf, and that was part of his life.”
“I think it was a way that someone who was living a double life would try to keep track of his stories, to not slip up and get caught.”
“In these busy lifestyles I think any type of technology that makes life a little easier and spares you some time.”
“We think there is an enormous market here, ... It allows people to manage everyday risks in their life and to speculate.”
“Our songs are a celebration of life, ... A lot of our songs are hopeful, overall. There are some sad songs, but you come away from them seeing the positive side. That's the spirit of the RubberBand.”
“The fullness of life is in the hazards of life.”
“My whole life isn't just involved with running. A good part of it, yeah. But my family is a big part and most important. That is why I can't do as much miles as the other girls do, because I'm on the go all the time.”
“Going to see him in the hospital made you realize just what's important in life. Things are a lot bigger than the game. It's good to see he does have an eye left and can live a normal life. It's not going to end.”
“Going to see him in the hospital made you realize just what's important in life. Things are a lot bigger than the game. It's good to see he does have an eye left and can live a normal life. It's not going to end.”
“People get confused about reporting their assets. Not everyone knows the face value of their life insurance policy.”
“I worked as a busboy in real life. I have some calluses that are not just from snacking at the actors' craft service table,”
“I guess I wasted four years of my life. I don't know what I'm going to do now.”
“Even though there were hundreds of volunteers who took time off from their jobs and dropped everything in their life to help in the relief effort, there was absolutely no sign of the federal government except in the area with a fence around it.”
“He just had a game of his life. Hopefully he can keep playing like that or somewhere near like that.”
“He dedicated his life to making other people's lives better. He just wasn't a fundraiser, he was somebody who clearly got involved in every single aspect . . . Never did he dedicate himself to anything where he made very much money.”
“[In his soon to be released book entitled] Romo: My Life on the Edge, ... the clear.”
“There was a time I never thought I would be below 200 in my life and I'm there, so that's one milestone I thought I would never be at and I made it.”
“While the situation in the Superdome was nightmarish and not satisfactory to anyone involved, it was not a life-and-death situation and we had to focus our priorities where we could,”
“They were training to help the life-savers.”
“They were training to help the life-savers.”
“I love my work. I get to do something different every day. I spent my adult life sitting on my butt doing abstract stuff. Now I'm up and about doing concrete things.”
“As a judge he needs to comply with the law. His life both professionally and personally needs to be above board in all respects.”
“Life sends you angels sometimes when you're in need and, in my theory, it's usually never the people you expect to be there. They are often gone the people that appear with a piece of advice or something they want to give to you to help you through are generally surprising people and I wanted Kirsten's character to be that.”
“In the future, everybody is going to be a director. Somebody's got to live a real life so we have something to make a movie about.”
“Most of the stuff I write is based on life experiences.”
“Lace has been brought back to life. It's not your grandmother's lace. The eyelet doesn't look like an Old West movie set, they're using it for the texture.”
“I am just having the time of my life. I love my teammates, and I am enjoying the end of this whole experience. Softball has been my life since I was 6.”
“But for quality of life, a transplant is the only way to go, I'm sure you'll agree.”
“You've got your whole life, everything that you've worked for all your life, right there,”
“That was first time in my life so many skaters fell.”
“Thanks for the gift of life. Not only did you save my life and a hell of a lot of money, but my blood pressure also went down.”
“Romo, My Life on the Edge.”
“He was a man who you could truly say was larger than life.”
“It's hard to say you lost X amount of dollars now. (The weather) just makes life much more difficult.”
“We've come to the end of that story , ... Life is too short to dwell on it.”
“Having in my life been bitten by the jaws of both victory and defeat, I must rush to add that success is to failure as butter pecan ice cream is to death.”
“I want to get back into football - it's my life,”
“I've tried to have a really normal life, and I have because my family treats me normal, and my friends treat me just the same.”
“It tends to be used at the very, very, very end stages of a person's life. By and large, this is not a population with a great security risk. If not for security, for what reason are we keeping the people in prison?”
“This is such a beautiful country, it would be a shame to spend your whole life working and not be able to enjoy it. Road trips are definitely going to be somewhere in there.”
“His capacity to make life difficult for George Bush would be at the cost of burying himself.”
“Hopefully for his sake, for his family, he's able to get his life cleaned up, whatever there is. I don't know his problem. I don't know his issues. I just know there's got to be a major problem for that to happen the day before the Super Bowl.”
“I have a nice life here. I can concentrate on my work. If I lived in LA or New York, I'd need a full-time job just to cover the cost of living. I don't need to do that here.”
“The family was grateful they did not have to make a decision regarding whether or not to continue life support for their son. He came into the world premature and left the world premature and they are most grateful for the time they had to spend with Matthew.”
“There is enough reality in my life, so I try not to read things that have too much stress.”
“We were taught instead of just reading about life we needed to go out and live it.”
“Life is a game and true love is a trophy.”
“This is the most I've ever got beaten in my life. So this is a new experience for me also.”
“This is a great example of life imitating art and art imitating life. The issues raised by 'A Day Without a Mexican' are based in the reality we now live with every day, particularly in Southern California. Regardless of where you side on the issue of illegal immigration, you can't deny the tremendous impact this group of people has had economically and culturally on our society, which is the point of the film.”
“I, for one, believe a judge can be pro-life yet be fair, balanced, and uphold a woman's right to choose. But for a judge to set aside his or her own personal views, the commitment to the rule of law must clearly supersede his or her personal agenda. That's a trick some can pull off, but not everyone can.”
“They are babies in waiting, life on ice.”
“After 13 years of life on the half shell in Hollywood, I have made a trip where I wasn't a tourist.”
“I visited Fuller every day for the first 20 or 30 years of my life. In those days, there was no pool and the park had limited amenities. Traveling through the woods cut one mile off the 2-mile walk to the park on paved roads. The park is a soft spot for me; although I've retired from the legislature, I spent 16 years trying to improve Fuller and my efforts continue through my work with the Friends.”
“It was the toughest decision of my life.”
“Charlie, what is nature of life?”
“I worked all my life, paid for my house, just remodeled it and then boom. It's hard. There's nothing to do. I don't know what's next.”
“It's tough not to think about what could have been. It was the most difficult decision of my life. Those were pretty much my dream school and my dream coach. I couldn't have both.”
“Some say I arrange for drama in my own life, ... He was sick as a dog with bronchitis and a 102-degree fever.”
“Because of the opportunities I've had in life, I feel I have an obligation to speak up about issues affecting our communities, and one of those issues is the health status of African-Americans and how to raise their level of health,”
“Like many other unfortunate young people, Harvey had never in all his life received a direct order - never, at least, without long, and sometimes tearful, explanations of the advantages of obedience and the reasons for the request.”
“I fear for my safety, so I'm requesting to be sent (where) my life isn't jeopardize(d).”
“A man fighting for his life.”
“He was able to capture a point in life and an emotion with a few strokes.”
“There are three modes of bearing the ills of life, by indifference, by philosophy, and by religion.”
“Intellectual property is playing an increasingly important role for our group. It's just a fact of life in our business now that you have to cultivate and protect IP.”
“I've been to 19 bowl games and never seen anything like it in my life.”
“There is no one, says another, whom fortune does not visit once in his life; but when she does not find him ready to receive her, she walks in at the door, and flies out at the window”
“He's ideal for it. He's cool. He handles things with the same approach he has for everything in life - he's happy go lucky. He's always trying hard, but nothing bothers him.”
“All the ingredients for life on Mars exist.”
“This will give the state of the best tools it's ever had to protect marine life off the coast.”
“I think that music has an endless life.”
“From far, from eve and morning And yon twelve-winded sky, The stuff of life to knit me Blew hither: here am I”
“First of all, I want an apology. One day I have everything, the next day they destroyed my life and I was not even charged for anything - had done no crime. I understand that there was a need of national security then, but how can they treat people that way?”
“A man in public life expects to be sneered at -- it is the fault of his elevated situation, and not of himself.”
“Now, what I want is, facts. Teach these boys and girls nothing but Facts. Facts alone are wanted in life. Plant nothing else, and root out everything else. You can only form the minds of reasoning animals upon Facts: nothing else will ever be of any service to them. This is the principle on which I bring up my own children, and this is the principle on which I bring up these children. Stick to Facts, sir!”
“In this life we want nothing but facts, sir; nothing but facts.”
“I love America dearly, but this is my life, and I don't want to put it on the line,”
“I've played that play over and over in my mind and 10 times out of 10, I catch it. Life goes on and it (the missed catch) is always going to be there. But that's the way it is.”
“I've been to 19 bowl games and have never seen anything like that in my life. The pep rally was the next night. You don't disrespect the best player on the other team by making fun of his name and have everyone in the audience laugh at him. There wasn't anything I had to do to get this team ready to play. I ought to thank the mayor and people of Boise.”
“I can't change the way I look nor can I sit back and let that rule my life when I know in my heart that I'm a real girl,”
“a very unique girl, a free spirit. I see all the beauty and childlike innocence in life.”
“It's unbelievable how far along that kid is. I've never seen nothing like that before in my life. He's really got a gift. He's got a gift, and he's using it very well. He's very graceful. I love watching him.”
“The [security] preparations here in New York are probably the best in the country, ... Life goes on, our politics have to go on. And we can't let these politics stop us.”
“I've never seen Corey shoot like this, never in my life not even in a pickup game. Corey was feeling it today, he was hot. He played great.”
“I haven't been past this, you know. But these were the two toughest games of my life.”
“The show is loosely based on my life,”
“Planetary protection is important and if one were to discover life on Mars then it would be perfectly sensible to say that there are certain areas that ought to be protected,”
“fighting for his [political] life.”
“You dream about this all your life. This victory is like a dream come true for me.”
“That's the sad irony in this. This was a room that was built specifically to prolong the life of the collection.”
“He had no fear and he took the shots and drilled them. In life, you are going to be challenged and when you respond like he did, you are going to be a champion.”
“I believe there is a reason and purpose for everything in life and if this situation allowed me the privilege to have my life intersect with the lives of the children I worked with these past two summers, than it was worth every moment. These kids face challenges and hardships that most of us cannot imagine. I've always tried to give back to the community, especially Detroit because of all it has done for me...I thank the Court for its fairness and guidance during the past few years and to my family, friends and fans for their support.”
“But sadly, the grim realities of life have started intruding into the fun and games - as is true in other areas, for example, the entertainment business, music, art, TV programming, movies. It's the same kind of issue for reporters in those areas. Entertainment reporters operated with some different standards as well up until fairly recently.”
“The inspiration for the whole body of work is routed in my philosophy of the after life.”
“She was a very devoted pediatrician who spent her life studying medicine and helping others. She gave free medications to her patients and went the extra mile to help those in need. She's my role model.”
“Having been around rich and educated people, they were also leaders in the social life.”
“She tells herself, and everyone else, father is risking his life for our freedoms.”
“You can never live life counting on being drafted. I have always planned on finishing my degree and seeing where life takes me.”
“It goes to show that in life you can be here today and nothing is guaranteed. It's certainly shocking to us a community to have someone across the street so suddenly disappear.”
“All the life insurers have got to get used to the fact they are no longer writing business at the same high margins they used to six or seven years ago, when they wrote a lot of with-profits business.”
“Thanks to the AFI, who saved my life.”
“Thanks to the AFI, who saved my life. I'm happy to be alive.”
“There is no sign of life of anyone. No shoe, no evidence of them there.”
“I'm plagued with indecision in my life. I can't figure out what to order in a restaurant.”
“We would be insensitive if I tell them there's no sign of life. It's a question only God can answer.”
“The life insurers are finding that some of the new products they sell are not making anywhere near the margins their older products used to make.”
“We've seen these long-term outlooks a lot more of late, and for the life of me I can't figure out why these companies are doing it.”
“Simply leaving your hotel to try to go out and report in Iraq is dangerous and possibly life-threatening.”
“My entire life, I dreamed of playing there. I dreamed of coaching there. I don't think anybody loves that basketball program like I love it.”
“During the '80s and '90s, Lew became a champion for work-life balance.”
“My glasses ended up being too strong for the first time in my life.”
“During the '80s and '90s, Lew became a champion for work-life balance.”
“It was close to a life-changing experience.”
“He was doing what he loved, living his life the best he knew how. Someone put it best - every day's a Kai Puckett day.”
“We've seen quite good sales figures from all the UK life insurance stocks. It looks like people are buying savings products once more and the sector seems to be performing relatively well again now after a tough few years.”
“It's a dying way of life. Along with that dies the idea of where you get rid of this sludge.”
“Collectors are all ages. We do have junior clubs. It's a good hobby for a long life. We have a lot of members well into their 90s.”
“What kind of game can take a life. It was at least six hours before I would allow myself to believe that.”
“I've never seen a faster movement in my life.”
“Since I have a family history of kidney failure, these can be tests to save your life.”
“One thing is to not avoid the recognition that this is a stressful life experience and there's no way to gloss over it,”
“The bond is special between a father, especially relative to his father's age and the time (in his life),”
“The best [defensive play] I have ever seen in my life. If anyone has seen one better, I'd really like them to pull some tape out so that I could see it.”
“I don't understand why he cannot spend ten minutes of his time to talk to somebody whose life he has devastated.”
“PC technology moves faster than the consoles. Consoles have a three- to five-year life span. You can get new video cards every few months, so the PC will always be more powerful and it has better connections to the Internet.”
“Market confidence towards savings products seems to have returned. As a result, the life insurance sector is getting back on track after a couple of tough years.”
“I knew when I got into this race that it wouldn't be easy. Anything worth fighting for in life rarely is,”
“It's a golf program that teaches kids life skills as well as golf.”
“I grew up in a small town where you know everyone, ... I've been told all my life that I come from too small a town to compete with some of the guys that competed in a higher level growing up. And that kind of drove me through college and drove me in the minor leagues, because I got to face all those big 5-A [school district] guys in the minors.”
“I've been told all my life that I come from too small a town to compete with some of the guys that competed in a higher level growing up. . . . And that kind of drove me.”
“It was hard to have her here, because she was used to an independent life, and we were, too, but it was the right thing to do,”
“We ask all others to condemn them and [ask] all others who have any hope for a peaceful life in the future for the Palestinian people to do everything they can within their power to stop this terror and stop this violence, ... We must keep moving forward. We must find a way through this crisis.”
“Lord, we pray that you use Christian's life in a very powerful and brave way like you did his father, David,”
“You're 30, you know cricket isn't the be-all and end-all. You're probably educated and know there is life away from cricket.”
“All the gravestones offered were dates, something to serve as mere parentheses around what really happened in a person's life.”
“We regret the loss of Pakistani life in this effort but it shows, I think, good intentions on the part of Pakistan not to allow these tribal areas to be used as a haven for the Taliban,”
“My life has been nothing special. I am a quiet person who came from a very ordinary, middle-class Negro family.”
“I don't want to spend the rest of my life giving speeches.”
“The liberty and life of a fellow citizen is now in your hands.”
“We regret the Chinese pilot did not get down safely, and we regret the loss of life of that Chinese pilot,”
“Not many people get to see a fire this big in their life.”
“Getting people in homes is real important towards improving the quality of life in the parish.”
“It's a very personal book for me. The book says a lot about my life. ... Sometimes the subjects just present themselves, I process the world through poetry.”
“It again shows that people will take innocent life without any remorse...Jordan, of course, has been a tremendous fighter and ally in the war on terror.”
“A center of social life for more than 20 years, the club felt little impact from prohibition - except the wonderful stories of narrow-escape raids as liquor supplies were whisked out the back door and stashed in the homes of nearby members.”
“Preview days are the worst days of your life.”
“I like to express certain things that happen in my life, the joy of spring, the birds singing and young babies coming into the world. You know, the whole thing as well as the part I'm not happy with, the sad part.”
“The unlived life is not worth examining.”
“That's the kind of mistake you make once in your life.”
“These are very successful students that are risking selling drugs, where their whole life would change after an arrest.”
“Being a Christian does not guarantee us that we are going to have a trouble-free life, but we know that whatever happens to us, that God will give us the strength and courage to see it through.”
“It's just insane that that happened. Something like that will never happen again for the rest of my life.”
“Teaching kept my life as normal as it could be.”
“I think Larry is one of the most wonderful crew chiefs I've ever had in my life,”
“Our defense came to life in the fourth quarter. Our defense and foul shooting won the game for us.”
“Graduates go on to earn a very substantial earnings premium. Over their working life, the average graduate will earn over 100,000 pounds more than someone who just had A-levels. What's more, research by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development indicates this return is among the highest internationally.”
“The crazy thing is I am probably driving right now better than I ever drove in my life, ... I guess I don't need to be retiring, but hey, I've made the decision to do that. Still the thing I want to do is go out on top of my game, and I think we're doing a good job out there for these fans. I really love these fans and I appreciate the job they're doing, pulling behind me.”
“It's probably the biggest hole I've ever been in in my life going into there [Bristol],”
“(The center) is a tribute to a life that meant so much to this community and this university.”
“I'm enjoying myself more now than I ever have in my life. I think it's a hard thing to continue to comeback and do it. Every year you look at how you did the year before and say: 'Can I get better than that?', 'Can I do better than that?', 'Is there something more to my career than that?' It's always fun to try one-up every year. Try go a little faster, try and do a little better each time. That's the fun part of it.”
“We got about six to eight feet in, and it was obvious that for life to sustain in that fire was not feasible. It was just tremendously hot.”
“He's a great success story, I am really excited for him for not just his hockey but his life. He's just a great person; without question one of the best kids we have had come through here. Michel is a Black Bear through and through.”
“I don't ever want to see a day like that again in my life. But it will happen again in Wisconsin. Guaranteed.”
“Eddie has made a lot of mistakes and Eddie has had a lot of problems in his life, but this is not something he created at all.”
“My life is nothing like the "Daddy Day Care" life. Me around the house is nothing like the "Daddy Day Care" dad.”
“At some point in your life, you become more interested in quality than quantity. By participating in this program you start to feel like a part of your community through your work.”
“And that's what saved Jeff Bridges' life.”
“We filed a complaint with the Sheriff's Office, and I'm working on finding a lawyer. For once in my life, I let myself trust someone. And I paid for it.”
“I probably made the best race start of my whole life, Valentino got away well too and we went together into the first bend. Elias came up on the inside and I actually saw everything happen but to be honest I thought Vale would be able to stay on the bike so I kept my corner speed and tried to just run it around the outside.”
“He was a sweetheart of a guy who always made you feel good about life and made sure you knew you were lucky to be around this game.”
“He told me this is the first day of the rest of his life. He loves where he is right now.”
“Trophies should go to the winners. Self-esteem does not lead to success in life. Self-discipline and self-control do, and sports can help teach those.”
“We filed a complaint with the Sheriff's Office, and I'm working on finding a lawyer, ... For once in my life, I let myself trust someone. And I paid for it.”
“It was tremendously uplifting knowing how he had given his life and was then victorious. If he didn't give his all on Calvary, we wouldn't have anything to stand on.”
“[The tropically hot conditions that prevail at Sepang make life tough 
 for tyres, but Michelin has always
 been up to the track's demands.] Sepang is one of 
 those special places where you get a lot more
 wheelspin than normal, ... The 
 hotter it is, the more wheelspin you get, so you just try to
 keep the bike in line, you have to think about conserving your tyres 
 more. The place is very heavy on
 the right side of the tyres, that's the side that gets all the 
 abuse, so Michelin takes all that into account
 and builds something focusing 90 per cent on of the right side of 
 the tyre. The places that really
 generate heat are turns three, six and coming onto the back straight 
 (turn 14) where the thing just
 wants to light up.”
“It is as if the life had retreated eastwards. As if the Germanic life were slowly ebbing away from contact with western Europe, ebbing to the deserts of the east.”
“It's just being in proximity to someone who, all your life, you have heard about and seen hs pictures and movies and heard his records and, all of a sudden, I'm with (him). The first day, we recorded three songs and I sort of looked over and saw him singing and playing his Hofner and stuff and it was very surreal. It took a while to kind of get used to it. You can't stay there, you get nothing done. You get stuff done but it's too stressful. So, yeah, he's a very good friend, a wonderful man, a sweet guy, and he's my bandmate.”
“It's a huge recovery. It's not something you just do one day and then get back to your life. My body is still telling me there's a long way to go.”
“Touring and writing is my life. It's who I am and what I do. And I don't see it changing any time in the near future. Hey, I get to get up every day and do what I love. Why change that?”
“It's a huge recovery. It's not something you just do one day and then get back to your life. My body is still telling me there's a long way to go.”
“The minimal cost to cell phone users is worth the saving of a life,”
“It was really good to have a quick break from paddock life after an intense weekend in Japan”
“Take nothing for granted: a true life is earned second by second, thought by thought.”
“If a person's life is in danger they have a right to protect themselves. He may have felt it was.”
“Having an 11-year old take her own life is traumatic for a community.”
“I think the box set represents the four top creative years of his life. It shows that growth pattern and shows behind-the-scenes little things that he was doing in creating those records and (is a) sort of wonderful window into the mind of the man who to me was the greatest guitar player of all time.”
“It's just crazy trying to wrap up 25 years of life.”
“Clearly, The Woodlands' vision of planned growth integrating nature with day-to-day life, work and play continues to have a broad appeal.”
“Music is the soundtrack of my life”
“The penalty kick gave us some life and kind of got them down a little bit. But their defense did a good job of clearing the ball when they needed to, and we just ran out of time.”
“I need Myra. I need her love and affection to fill a void in my life. And I'll do anything to show her I'm the best man for her.”
“I'd love to have a bubble . . . but you've got to deal with what you've got to deal with. That's life as we know it and we'll deal with it.”
“Life is not fair. And to approach it as [fair], I don't think probably is educationally sound. We talk about controlling what we can control.”
“All routes have displacements, structural or way-of-life. It's going to modify the way that area is developed.”
“Anything that improves the quality of water in the river, improves the quality of life for the 3.2 million people who live within its watershed.”
“I'll remember this day for the rest of my life,”
“Life was but a joke and a dream, quite frankly. We were having a good time, and we were working very hard and the sessions were very light-hearted.”
“You never know. Some things are certain in life and that is one of them.”
“It's tragic. I feel sorry for the little boy who hardly had a start in life. And I don't understand why the parents deceived all of the people who turned out to hunt for him.”
“We're probably the happiest 1-6 team around. We showed a little life and got back to doing some of the things we need to do to be successful. We're not happy, but hopefully, we have something we can build off of.”
“Life sucks, and then you fly.”
“Each year with the Volvo for life Awards, we seek to not only recognize everyday heroes, but to likewise inspire others to do good in their communities. While Oliver Barton and the other finalists' stories are unique, they share a passion for creating change within their communities that will have lasting impacts for generations to come.”
“Each year with the Volvo for life Awards, we seek to not only recognize everyday heroes, but to likewise inspire others to do good in their communities. While Billy and the other finalists' stories are unique, they share a passion for creating change within their communities that will have lasting impacts for generations to come.”
“Anything that improves the quality of water in the river, improves the quality of life for the 3.2 million people who live within its watershed.”
“The PowerPC systems that are available today have at least another two years of life left. Apple will support those machines with the next version of its operating system, so if you buy a PowerPC machine, it's still a good investment.”
“You don't do a job like this all your life because you like it. You do it because there are rewards. And that's what they want to take away from us.”
“Life is full of risks,”
“Now I choose to make a personal decision and to empower myself to regain my life, ... It's important for me to now move on.”
“There's nothing worse than a halfway committed position on a pro-life issue, because pro-life voters can smell that a mile away,”
“Countries where women have access to professional life are also those where the birth rate is higher.”
“I want balance in my life,”
“The Iraq war looms so large in American life, for the Jewish community to take a pass at discussing [it] would really be unrealistic.”
“Should a person who's the most powerful person in the world conduct his personal life in such a way that would be a poor example to our children?”
“His life was somewhat in upheaval. He didn't have any control anymore, as he did when he was a police officer.”
“I've had a number of friends in my life who've had drinking problems. Frankly, the ones that put the cork in the bottle and quit and have the guts to do it, I respect,”
“He always said nobody is promised tomorrow, and he lived life to the fullest. I do that. You can't take life for granted, and Puck never did. I'm real glad I was his teammate. He taught me everything I know about how to act, how to carry yourself, on and off the field.”
“He lived for it. It was his life. The cycling team was his family out here. He was incredibly dedicated to the sport.”
“They are clothes for the American woman, for every aspect of her life, and every part of the country, ... There's no shock, very little to dazzle, just beautifully made clothes, beautiful fabrics in simple designs. Increasingly, I hear people say they can't find anything to wear, so that's what this is about.”
“That's how I seem to spend my life.”
“This is big. When you vote young, you're much more likely to vote the rest of your life, so the 2004 campaign turned a generation on to politics.”
“The movie shows how much of his life Capote put into 'In Cold Blood' and the toll it took on him. He made it a literary phenomenon and it was a hard act to follow. No matter what he did, he could never top it.”
“Ever-growing numbers of consumers are looking for authenticity. High Life is the most authentic beer brand.”
“The movie shows how much of his life Capote put into 'In Cold Blood' and the toll it took on him. He made it a literary phenomenon and it was a hard act to follow. No matter what he did, he could never top it.”
“They're able to bring life to it. It makes Shakespeare seem a lot friendlier.”
“Right now, human life is paramount so I'm concentrating all my power on getting out people who want to leave,”
“Now I am very clear about what is important in my life. Once I might have lived to work, now I work to live for my family.”
“One of my clients wanted me to do a site inspection. He was having a weak moment for a life-size moose in his yard.”
“The whole of science, and one is tempted to think the whole of the life of any thinking man, is trying to come to terms with the relationship between yourself and the natural world. Why are you here, and how do you fit in, and what's it all about.”
“There's no reason to put your life on hold and not move into the right home because of a temporary situation,”
“I went for the gaffer. I don't know if I've ever lost control like that in my life before. It was like some mad scene out of a gangster movie.”
“There are issues to consider but my personal life is fine, the team is doing well and I'm happy with the coach. Everything is coming together.”
“Twenty-five has been a number that has been important to me my whole life. It's important to me because my family is important to me.”
“I made one other great catch like that in my life, but it was in junior varsity. That was nothing compared to this. We just felt like, 'Hey, we didn't come all the way up here to lose.' So, we went for it.”
“It feels like a lifetime ago, actually. There are parts of your life that you break up into sections. It does feel like 20 years. But coming back here brings back a lot of memories. I'm excited that the Mets organization is going to do something for that team on the anniversary. It's nice to do stuff while people are around to enjoy it.”
“I hope he survives. We really feared for his life.”
“The U.S. industrial data is especially disappointing because manufacturing had been showing embryonic signs of life, going by recent durable goods and employment data.”
“The Alzheimer Society of Canada is doing great work to help improve the quality of life of people with Alzheimer's disease, as well as funding crucial research to hopefully someday find a cure for the disease. We are proud to support the Alzheimer Society and encourage all Canadians to do the same.”
“I haven't been here my whole life, but I've been here long enough to learn that people don't like the Titans here, ... And I'm starting to get a taste of dislike for them, too.”
“I never did anything I regretted so much in my life. I would give anything in the world if I could undo my acts - I played a crooked game and I have lost.”
“Make good choices and keep God at the center of your life. He's got to be the main focus. I grew up in a Christian household, but when I got away from that I made some bad choices and it caused me a lot of problems in all areas of my life.”
“He really came back to life when he hit the shore. We put him on our rescue truck first, got the clothes off and wrapped him up.”
“I have an issue with my heart, but it won't be a life-threatening situation. I am staying overnight in the hospital to get some further evaluation and tests done. The doctors will then give me some options on how to treat this issue.”
“Each year with the Volvo for life Awards, we seek to not only recognize everyday heroes, but to likewise inspire others to do good in their communities. While Jeannette's, Sophia's and the other finalists' stories are unique, they share a passion for creating change within their communities that will have lasting impacts for generations to come.”
“Our current course doesn't just threaten our future economy and quality of life, but also our long-term national security.”
“Our whole life was around the community, around the families. Ron's dad was our Cub Scout leader. He taught us how to play softball, how to bowl. My dad ran the teen lounge at the synagogue.”
“I'm trying to get my life together. I'm trying to put my past behind me, and the scar is part of that.”
“This is a very big day in my life. This is the hardest decision I've ever had to make.”
“It was black; you couldn't see nothing. There wasn't no life in her. All that smoke.”
“As an example of just how useless these philosophers are for any practice in life there is Socrates himself, the one and only wise man, according to the Delphic Oracle. Whenever he tried to do anything in public he had to break off amid general laughter. While he was philosophizing about clouds and ideas, measuring a flea's foot and marveling at a midge's humming, he learned nothing about the affairs of ordinary life.”
“The Indians knew that life was equated with the earth and its resources, that America was a paradise, and they could not comprehend why the intruders from the East were determined to destroy all that was Indian as well as America itself.”
“I just wish the best for him, that he can somehow get it together and understand life. He's a good guy.”
“The recent devastation of Hurricane Katrina in the aftermath of her wrath, there has been a loss of life, property, finances, homelessness and a multitude of atrocities. The people affected by this disaster is astronomical.”
“My first two Olympics were just really devastating. I was so devastated after Salt Lake I thought my life was going to end. It was one of those life lessons ... realizing that life's a lot bigger than this five-ring circus.”
“My first two Olympics were just really devastating. Salt Lake was probably one of the worst days of my life.”
“But I'm in my own bed at the end of every night. That wasn't always the case at Virginia. Life on the road doesn't allow it.”
“This is all about giving people time back and improving their quality of life.”
“There are no signs of life, no rooftops, no nothing.”
“He really had a rough life starting off. It was one thing after another. But he has really turned out to be a tough old horse.”
“Reuben continues to run hard and give a good effort. We'll keep having him run to give us some life.”
“I've been uniquely blessed to have nearly 60 wonderful years of a fascinating life. I look forward to several more years.”
“Reuben had a little drama in his life early in the week. But I think that with the support of his teammates, he felt like he had the team behind him.”
“I've found just entering county government, government in general, for the first time in my life, things that would normally take me a month to do in general business situations take three months to do here. It's simply because of the red tape.”
“She had a tragedy in her life, and was always interested in medicine, but it was always out of her reach.”
“I said, 'This is a matter of life and death, and we've got to do our best to work together to keep our people safe.' And I've really tried to do that. I found him to be hard to help.”
“Though we got everything up and running back in 1987, our life situations changed and made moving forward at that time very difficult.”
“I am a better actor now than at any time in my life. And haven't worked for seven years!”
“I believe that the first 8 years are most important and the time in a child's life when parents must be absolutely and completely present.”
“He's done so much for me. He's good for the program and does everything in life by the book. He's a good man with a good knowledge of basketball, but more importantly, he's just a very good man.”
“Reuben had a little drama in his life early in the week. But I think that with the support of his teammates, he felt like he had the team behind him.”
“This [senior class] is a group that makes my life easy every single day. It's hard for the freshmen not to go at full speed when they see J.J. Morrissey and Culver going all out with everything that they do.Not just on Saturdays. They set the proper example on and off the field. It's really an inspiring group.”
“In my private life I do what I like. The night is my friend. If I don't go out, I don't score.”
“Let me assure all Iraqis listening today that life without Saddam Hussein is not a distant dream,”
“If kids come out of this remembering one thing, just something, then it could help save one life and that makes it all worth it,”
“It's real life. It's interesting to see the guts, not just the finished product but what goes in and out.”
“Nothing ceases to amaze me about what he's doing now. I've seen what he can do my whole life. It's a beautiful thing to see how talented he is now. Everybody who knew him knew he was destined to do great things.”
“I'm having the time of my life and I'm glad people are enjoy it.”
“In my private life I do what I like. The night is my friend. If I don't go out, I don't score.”
“Dad's big watchword was flexibility . . . so much stuff happens (in school and in life) you have to be ready and flexible,”
“It was the most difficult day for me in my life.”
“Now for the first time in my life, I see Israel really interested in figure skating, not only ice dancing but the Winter Olympics.”
“That's going to make life a lot easier when that line is out.”
“This is her life. This is what goes through her veins — weddings and love.”
“[With more night games at home,] You get to do 'life stuff,' like go to the laundry, go to the bank, go to the car wash, go shopping, ... Things you don't get a chance to do when you're playing day games. You're always conscious here of oversleeping because you can wake up in a panic, especially if it's cloudy and dark outside, and you're like, 'Oh, man.' Or if it gets sunny real early, you're jumping out of bed at 6 o'clock.”
“Guys get a chance to get more rest, ... Guys get a chance to do life stuff: Go do laundry, go to the car wash, go to the bank, shopping. Regular stuff you don't get a chance to do, stuff that's closed when you get to the park, stuff that's closed when you leave the park.”
“This is one of those lessons in life. You can't do anything about rumors. I expect Mark to be fine. Mark wasn't one that we wanted to trade. [Baltimore] asked for Mark. We didn't volunteer Mark. If you look over baseball, Willie Mays got traded, Hank Aaron got traded. I'm glad Mark wasn't traded.”
“My feeling is that life supercedes everything. I haven't heard the severity of it, but I know it's not good. When you get to those things, how do you put a timetable on it?”
“This amazing cast of renowned, talented Hollywood actors brings the rich storyline of Gun to life. Players this fall will get to experience the brutality that was the American West and through this voice talent feel like they are part of the action.”
“Human life is just a given series, an endless series of such moments,”
“It's a brand-new world for pro-life people right now. You've got people who are cautious and people who think it's not a time for caution.”
“It is the growling man who lives a dog's life.”
“He's opted not to continue his junior playing career and pursue his life after junior hockey sooner rather than later. It's a disappointment but fortunately the trade didn't involve us giving up a player from our active roster. It's not as though we had Macdonald and then lost a player in the process, or we had him and he left.”
“Each year with the Volvo for life Awards, we seek to not only recognize everyday heroes, but to also inspire others to do good in their communities. Selecting our nine finalists from more than 4,300 nominations was a daunting task. While their stories are unique, they share a passion for creating change within their communities that will have lasting impacts for generations to come.”
“Charlotte Church is our woman of the year simply because she is larger than life. She is a great singer, a tabloid giant and enjoys life to the full.”
“Charlotte Church is our woman of the year simply because she is larger than life. She is a great singer, a tabloidgiant and enjoys life to the full.”
“Human life is just a given series, an endless series of such moments,”
“A lot has changed for me. My life has improved. It's not only children, but the relationship with my wife is the best thing that ever happened to me.”
“Oh, I'm a survivor. My whole life has been surviving.”
“Life is not a dress rehearsal.”
“I'm just hopeful there are other ways to get to this research, something short of having to create a life and then destroy that life to help these very difficult circumstances.”
“Secondly, quality of life is always very high on the list of criteria for why companies or people or families locate or relocated in an area.”
“He's the love of my life [on Wayne Rooney]”
“Since I was a little boy, my whole life, I wanted to be the superintendent of police,”
“It's a fact of life that we've been on the West Coast so it's going to be nice to get back home and have some practices on our home court, ... The good thing is that we've had some real lively practices out here. Guys have been really competing and that's what you want to see as you get ready for the season.”
“Making it here was awesome. Coach Harper is a great coach. He teaches us life lessons every day, and everyone in this group is going to succeed in life no matter what happens on the court. I'm just proud to be a part of it.”
“Is nothing in life ever straight and clear, the way children see it?”
“He'll give a speech about his life.”
“All of those byes made us look flat. I hope that they come out (today) and have more life.”
“That's about intense independence in life. Making her own rules, wanting to do things her own way.”
“You need to leave a little bit of flexibility in the system. Fifty sex offenders in prison for life doesn't protect the community as much as 300 in prison for 10 years.”
“He was above all an observer of life — that's how I see Darwin.”
“Best feeling of my life, just to be on the team, with all the seniors, it just didn't seem real. It's by far the best experience I've had in hockey and I just knew I wanted to get there again, especially as an older player as I've had more of an impact.”
“I mean, each one of them coming into my life has brought me something, taught me something.”
“She's highly self sufficient. She needs her own space and her own life, her own things, her own identity.”
“In the movie, he was lovable and soft. In real life, Ledger is oozing with testosterone, very strong, very tender. He's secure enough as a straight guy to play a gay guy.”
“I used to work in Gary Indiana. I was a life guard, the brothers and the sister would all come down to the pool but the grease from hair goes everywhere and they can't swim.”
“The man who succeeds above his fellows is the one who early in life, clearly discerns his object, and towards that object habitually directs his powers. Even genius itself is but fine observation strengthened by fixity of purpose. Every man who observes vigilantly and resolves steadfastly grows unconsciously into genius.”
“Not as much as Clark Gable's, but in that direction. It means that they're rebels in real life.”
“Life is messy; it's not linear, it's not logical, and the book reflects that,”
“They need to consider end of life and build that into their product structure to manage regulatory qualification. For example, retirement of components with tin-lead leads needs to be planned, and those components replaced with compliant parts. Termination of such non-compliant products will also affect industries that are not yet regulated.”
“There could be a severe recession. That doesn't mean there won't be life on the planet Earth in the year 2000, 2001 and beyond.”
“Its better to be Pissed Off than Pissed On!”
“Life, for all its agonies of despair and loss and guilt, is exciting and beautiful, amusing and artful and endearing, full of liking and love, at times a poem and a high adventure, at times noble and at times very gay; and whatever (if anything) is t”
“The only thing I found out from Atlanta was that they thought I'd lost life on my fastball. I don't know how that happens in four appearances. I don't know if there was something else going on. I don't know if I want to know.”
“I grew up loving animals and still do. They always are going to be a part of my life.”
“The technology is getting a new life.”
“The role was written American. Suddenly the dialogue came off the page and came to life in a way that really lent itself to the lyricism of the brogue. It just worked, it really clicked. I knew the role was going to be mine, and sure enough they made an offer.”
“What if a demon were to creep after you one night, in your loneliest loneliness, and say, 'This life which you live must be lived by you once again and innumerable times more; and every pain and joy and thought and sigh must come again to you, all in the same sequence. The eternal hourglass will again and again be turned and you with it, dust of the dust!' Would you throw yourself down and gnash your teeth and curse that demon? Or would you answer, 'Never have I heard anything more divine'?”
“I just have a lot of respect for Terry and his family. He played without a mask, and his life was tragically ended. And it just means a lot to me to be up there with him and the other greats that have played that long.”
“Live Life and Live it Well!”
“It requires a great deal of boldness and a great deal of caution to make a great fortune, and when you have it, it requires ten times as much skill to keep it.”
“I'm very excited. It's a great day for the students and the student-athletes. This student life center is going to be a beautiful thing.”
“Property can be replaced ! Human life, never.”
“[Johnson?s father, who had a fourth-grade education, worked all his life at a creosote plant operating on the banks of the creek. He took the little bit of money he made to feed his family and buy a piece of land.] By the time he retired, ... his lungs were completely eroded, eaten up. He just made 70.”
“I could tell from the moment we met that she had been helping people all her life. Even while dealing with her disability, she was always trying to find a way to help her friends. I felt that it was her turn to be on the receiving end.”
“Although cats have nine lives, we believe Kitty may be running out of time. If no one extends a life line to Kitty Hawk, there is a real possibility that Kitty Hawk, in its present form, will no longer be in operation six months down the road.”
“me+u=one time-justin bieber”
“Everyone who works at McDonalds has to do one of those ghost shifts.”
“Think your life was made for dreaming, nothing more,
When God's work lies all unfinished at your door?”
“His whole life revolved around Jamie. He didn't go out and party. He didn't drink or smoke. This has probably destroyed him.”
“I loved doing the show every week, ... This was an important chapter of my life and although I'm disappointed the show was canceled, I look forward to moving beyond the stereotype. Look for me in my new sitcom, 'Two Girls, a Horse and Some Wine Coolers.'”
“I was born again and feel as if [God] has granted me a second chance in life.”
“There is no sign of life so far.”
“And in the end it's not the years in your life but the life in your years.”
“This gets around all of the ethical arguments except for that small minority of the pro-life community that doesn't even support in vitro fertilization,”
“I've made mistakes in my life, and I've stood before my creator and I've accepted responsibility for my behavior.”
“There are 14 million underemployed Americans. Don't they have the right to have a better life and support their families? Let's give them an opportunity because this is their country.”
“It was a great trip. It was one of the better trips of my life.”
“I think it's a wonderful thing for our children... If we can do something to help save someone's life, then it's worth all the money that we spent.”
“It was disturbing because it was my professor and I know he has a life outside of USI, but it was weird to realize it.”
“Nothing can be more painful than the cry of the word which gave us the inspiration to dream of love.”
“We cannot conceive death as anything else than the afterlife because we cannot comprehend death unless we live.”
“Almost every position he took in his life I was highly supportive of. He was a hero in many respects.”
“Nobody has ever been beyond his own Illusion of Life.”
“All the roads of life end in death.”
“Life is just not pleasant together when you are not rested. You don't ride the bumps of stress as well.”
“Life on Earth was not a cosmic fluke but part of a broad imperative. Mars is a lot like Earth. And billions of years ago it had some kind of atmosphere and huge quantities of flowing water.”
“A lot of our patients are on the edge of life and death. We don't have the time to go through protocols.”
“She really gave up a year of her life.”
“Most people in America have been conditioned to believe they should 'coast' through life as much as possible -- they should avoid 'pressure situations' and gravitate toward circumstances where no one is demanding anything from them. You see, the truth of the matter is that it's through pressure or 'stress' that we evolve -- that we grow.”
“He has a real live arm and a fastball that shows life in the zone. He plays catch with the catcher and has some zip.”
“Each year with the Volvo for life Awards, we seek to not only recognize everyday heroes, but to likewise inspire others to do good in their communities. While Eva's, Jane's and the other finalists' stories are unique, they share a passion for creating change within their communities that will have lasting impacts for generations to come.”
“Volvo's most sincere gratitude goes out to the Volvo for life Awards judges, who time and time again come together to select the year's greatest hometown heroes. They are an inspiring group of individuals making an incredible impact on the world.”
“It was like I closed a chapter in my life and I am now able to move on. By completing that, I've just proven that if I set my mind to it, I can do it.”
“Life is just not pleasant together when you are not rested. You don't ride the bumps of stress as well.”
“If you're too busy to go fishin', you're too busy”
“He had three great loves in his life: football, his family and this school, and he was fully committed and attentive to each every day of his life, ... I was one of thousands of midshipmen to pass through this man's life ... It was only many years later when reflecting on the values, commitment and genuine concern Steve expressed for each of us, that I began to realize and appreciate the impact he had on our lives.”
“All successful people men and women are big dreamers. They imagine what their future could be, ideal in every respect, and then they work every day toward their distant vision, that goal or purpose.”
“A diplomat is a man who always remembers a woman's birthday but never remembers her age.”
“It's almost like if you're not doing anything, you're boring or you don't have a life.”
“I had sat around campfires all my life, since I was 10 years old. I wanted the sound of water.”
“Have you ever noticed that anybody driving slower than you is an idiot, and anyone going faster than you is a maniac?”
“You know, somebody actually complimented me on my driving today. They left a little note on the windscreen, it said 'Parking Fine.'”
“Among our own people also the church sorely needs clergy in close touch with the ordinary life of the laity, living the life of ordinary men, sharing their difficulties and understanding their trials by close personal experience.”
“If you want something different out of life, it's there. All you've got to do is work for it. In my opinion, the answer is school.”
“I must have walked by faith and not by sight because the journey was so dark, I couldn't see where to go.”
“This is going to change my life a lot.”
“For him life wasn't chasing income and fame. It was about making his soul complete.”
“Life has come to a standstill.”
“That was definitely one of the hardest rounds of golf I've played in my life. It seemed like everything was going the wrong way.”
“Living a Life in Sin Sucks! It Sucks the Life Out of You!”
“It gives you life, but you can't hold on to it. You can't breathe indefinitely. We need to surrender to the fact that all efforts at permanence are hopeless. No structure we can build will protect us from the contingencies of life. But in the midst of that impermanence is the incredible gift of life.”
“It was a wonderful experience. I am still learning from the book, and it's changed my life.”
“certainly severely ill and is fighting for his life.”
“It's very upsetting, obviously, but at the same time, we all want to celebrate his incredible life, which he really lived to the full, ... He was a great character and a big influence on all of us.”
“When they tell you not to go outside and to evacuate, people don't realize that your life is in your hands. When you can see the winds actually pick up a car, you can understand how strong those 145 mph winds are.”
“This is a whole new set of technologies that has heretofore not been discovered, ... The goal is to make life easier to live in the Net.”
“We certainly understand that Christians have difficulties in life, even ministers. But this was not a realistic portrayal of a minister's life. This was so far beyond the pale, it was almost a comic-strip version.”
“The desire to escape normal life and do something different that engages the mind, body and spirit is in all of us.”
“General Motors is showing signs of life.”
“We see in our wards young people in their 30s with advanced liver diseases, their life ruined. I see liver disease all around increasing,”
“People in our generation are starting the adventure of life. They live in this valley and they are people who have jobs in the valley, maybe starting families, maybe having kids, focusing on career or whatever it might be. Our generation gets pulled in a lot of different directions in life. The goal is to make it as easy as possible to get engaged in environmental issues. It's not that our generation doesn't care. We're just looking for the most direct ways to plug in.”
“I would rather be ashes than dust! I would rather that my spark should burn out in a brilliant blaze than it should be stifled by dry-rot. I would rather be a superb meteor, every atom of me in magnificent glow, than a sleepy and permanent planet. The function of man is to live, not to exist. I shall not waste my days trying to prolong them. I shall use my time.”
“What is life but a grand adventure, if you choose to LIVE it? Every chance meeting, every lover, every friend, every new opportunity- all forks in the road less traveled. Pathways that take you somewhere new. It's up to you to forge the way. Go or stay, take that chance or play it safe...simply exist or truly live! ~Stacey Charter”
“This is the maximum I can achieve in my life and my career,”
“I want "more" of "less".”
“Life has its ups and downs, you can fall down, 
 but you can also get up. I have friends, my 
 daughters and a very great spirit of struggle which 
 is comforting in finding another opportunity. My 
 family has helped me a lot along this road; now I 
 wake up every morning and have the same ambitions 
 that I had a while back.”
“While the brain is working, you go on trying, ... Life depends on the brain function and that is still working. He's just desperately ill man in (intensive care) and we struggle on.”
“He's an amazing man. Here is a man of unbelievable character... who has his ideals and philosophies about life and does not waiver from them. They are a combination of... a strong work ethic, giving back to the community, believing strongly in education. I could go on and on and on.”
“If you don't have solid beliefs you cannot build a stable life. Beliefs are like the foundation of a building, and they are the foundation to build your life upon.”
“He's throwing harder. His first several fastballs had a lot of life.”
“He Choreographed the Dance; Let Him Lead”
“The Department of Homeland Security spends over $40 billion a year to protect the home front, ... Right to Life? Sierra Club?”
“This is a controlled way to lift a trailer that will save the horse's life.”
“It's been a crazy week. You work your whole career, you work in life to get to the NCAA tournament and it's the second best thing to happen to you this week.”
“It was hell, the toughest thing in my life. My rib was cracked open, I could not play basketball; I could not do anything by myself for months.”
“Where you were born is less important than how you live”
“My expectation is to practice hard. I'm back to being a freshman in college. I'll make those guys' life a little bit tough in practice. I want to go out there and do the dirty work.”
“Tracy was a good kid. He was doing a lot of things positive. He turned his life around.”
“The public has invested in this story. It participates, it judges, it condemns, it pities. It's a second life for a lot of people.”
“I was introduced to the president, ... He asked me what I did in life, and I explained my project.”
“The world 's a bubble, and the life of man less than a span.”
“Custom is the principle magistrate of man's life”
“And excuse me for not being able to deal with your problems, but I was busy saving someone's life ...”
“Life, an age to the miserable, and a moment to the happy.”
“If you think someone is weird, remember that they are probably thinking the same of you.”
“This guy's been affiliated with winners all his life, and consistent winners, ... The record, I think, speaks for itself.”
“The best thing you can do for yourself; is live a happy life.”
“First of all there is always that artistic challenge of creating something. Or the particular experience to take slum life in that period and make something out of it in the form of a book. And then I felt some kind of responsibility to my family.”
“We were able to bring the life back to the concrete. We were able to treat it like it was new, so it will be able to withstand another 50 years of active use.”
“I can't go too much into my domestic life because there are ex-wives ready to do me in.”
“Mr. Kilgore, you have said that you would eliminate abortion… have exceptions for rape, incest, and life of mother… what would happen, under Governor Kilgore, to a doctor and a woman who underwent an abortion if in fact, your scenario became law?”
“Football is a lot like life, and you're going to have disappointments. The issue is how you come back from them.”
“It seems there is a lot less focus on money. Life there seems more relaxed.”
“The civilization of the past 100 years, with its startling industrial changes, has tended more and more to make life insecure. Young people have come to wonder what would be their lot when they came to old age. The man with a job has wondered how long the job would last.”
“We don't do it when there's a blizzard. Just bad weather, not life-threatening. Besides, it brings buyers here and that's what we want to do.”
“The players are doing everything to make the life of referees difficult.”
“It gives a work/life balance. It allows the employees to use the high-speed connection at work, but keeps it from being abused.”
“You never know if you never do.”
“It gives a work/life balance. It allows the employees to use the high-speed connection at work, but keeps it from being abused.”
“There's a lot of fun with the idea of the attorney that's now turned to a life of crime.”
“Maybe our mistakes are what make our fate.”
“The other shore is meant for immortality, this shore for common life.”
“I've been playing football all my life. But that's the craziest game I've ever been in.”
“As life is dear to oneself, it is dear also to other living beings: by comparing oneself with others, good people bestow pity on all beings.”
“Walking naked and the other things mentioned in our verse are outward signs of a saintly life.”
“This body is wasted, full of sickness, and frail; this heap of corruption breaks to pieces, life indeed ends in death.”
“Noise is the No. 1 quality-of-life complaint in the city. And this comprehensive overhaul of the noise code would make the city more livable.”
“Life is easy to live for a man who is without shame, a crow hero, a mischief-maker, an insulting, bold, and wretched fellow.”
“We lost the World Cup but I won another cup: my life.”
“He who destroys life, who speaks untruth, who in this world takes what is not given him, who goes to another man's wife.”
“There are much more important issues then my personal life; such as unemployment, health & Education.”
“Keep noble friends whose life is pure, and who are not slothful.”
“To hold the World Cup in my hands is one of the most incredible moments of my life.”
“its times like these when it only comes around once in a life time, take it the chance your given it”
“I have the chance to do for a living what I like the most in life, and that's playing football. I can make people happy and enjoy myself at the same time.”
“(King) changed the world. He sacrificed his life. Being in Memphis, that's huge. We played on that day. Just taking the tour of the hotel and everything, I don't think most of us (black players in the NBA) would be here if it wasn't for him sacrificing.”
“I was fighting for my life. That's how I thought about it. Just getting everything out of my body.”
“At first I thought, 'Man, this bull has the life.' I was a teenage boy, I could see the advantage of that. Then I thought, 'Maybe this isn't such a good deal.' ... Sometimes he'd look at me with these eyes: Beware of what you wish for.”
“We're delighted to have Val Kilmer join our Volvo for life Awards judging team. His genuine interest in honoring our nation's heroes makes him a wonderful addition to the initiative.”
“People put their faith in man, because they are too scared to put their faith in GOD.”
“We're poised to have an incredible surge forward in life science research . . . and make good use of this money.”
“ One day you shall understand; by then it will be to late.”
“[Williams said it was] an absolute honor ... one of the highlights of my life.”
“We will open the book. Its pages are blank. We are going to put words on them ourselves. The book is called Opportunity and its first chapter is New Year's Day.”
“I don't make new years resolutions, I make life-changing decisions.”
“definitely one of the highlights of my life. Absolutely.”
“They were the most important things in her life.”
“Today we Americans lost a hero who always seemed larger than life. ... Bear Bryant gave his country the gift of a life unsurpassed. In making the impossible seem easy, he lived what we strive to be.”
“What to do if you find yourself stuck in a crack in the ground underneath a giant boulder you can't move, with no hope of rescue. Consider how lucky you are that life has been good to you so far. Alternatively, if life hasn't been good to you so far, which given your current circumstances seems more likely, consider how lucky you are that it won't be troubling you much longer.”
“The movie was the life story of baseball pitcher Grover Cleveland Alexander, who begin his professional career with a Galesburg minor league team in the early teens,”
“The tragedy of life is not that it ends so soon, but that we wait so long to begin it.”
“We make a living by what we get, but we make a life by what we give.”
“It sucks not knowing”
“You can't have a harder situation in your life than what his family went through,”
“His best playing days are ahead of him. He?s been around it all his life, and he?s a great student of life. It?s one thing being around it. It?s another thing doing it.”
“He who cannot distinguish fake from real is a living legend of stupidity.”
“LIFE is a Delicate Manoeuvrings Between choices”
“I think it's an important aspect of life that we be able to have that sense of community. I like to see it happen throughout the country. That songs can be written that celebrate the features that people like most about their town.”
“In the arithmetic of love, one plus one equals everything, and two minus one equals nothing”
“My life was never right after that.”
“How To Kill the Job Culture Before It Kills You: Living a Life of Autonomy in a Wage-Slave Society ... sucking the vitality out of our lives, families and communities.”
“All men die, not every man truly lives.”
“In youth we learn; in age we understand.”
“She was only going to fly once in her life. The thing that NASA learned most fundamentally from that is we really need to have individuals on board who have accepted the risk associated with space fright and are willing to make that a career.”
“He was a very honest man and never got a dishonest dollar in his life. He was respected for that by the entire community. If he found a $5 bill on the street and if he couldn't find the owner – and he'd go door to door trying to find them – then he'd give it to a charity.”
“Do not think about what you can gain but rather what is there to lose.”
“Battery life is very high on the list of customers' requirements. The immediate reaction is, 'What took so long?”
“He's the guy that gave us the lift. You have to find some life somewhere whether it's on offense or defense or pitching and he gave us some life. That allowed us to sit back and swing the bat a little bit.”
“Everything in life is on loan from God.”
“We can move mountains when we're united and enjoy life -- Without unity we are victims. Stay united.”
“While corporations eke another year of life out of their PCs, these [gamers] buy the new graphics chip the day it comes out, ... Sometimes two or three times a year.”
“Don't live a balanced life. Live an integrated life.”
“We're plagued by the tragic loss of life. This possibly could have been prevented had there been a working smoke detector,”
“They would have been rendered helpless from the smoke, ... We are plagued by the loss of life that possibly -- possibly -- could have been prevented.”
“It seems we are constantly in search of true happiness, which seems to be an illusion that escapes us. I believe happiness is found only in unpredictable and tender moments”
“He is singularly focused on changing and improving the life choices of young people. And he guides the way I operate as a principal.”
“That was the most down period in my life, ... I was afraid of everything. I didn't think I could do anything anymore, and I basically just stayed at home. Literally, I woke up one day and thought, 'OK, what's my life going to be like 5, 10, 30 years out from now, if I keep doing this?' And I thought, 'Oh my God, I'm going to have a long, boring life. I've got to do something to change this.'”
“If we change one life, if we keep one person from being tried for murder, it will be a success. Anything past that is a bonus.”
“When peace like a river come's my way - When sorrow like the sea, tears from my eyes will fall - Whatever will happen or come my way - Just like Mother Natures weather - What will happen will happen - Nothing will stop it or stand in it's way”
“It's a streak that obviously is a pride thing, but it's not a life-or-death thing, ... We know that there are very few people, if anybody ever in history, that have been fortunate enough to go through a season unscored upon, and we're not foolish enough to believe that's going to happen to us. But obviously, you're playing hard to try to keep that.”
“Truth or peace. Pick your poison.”
“Intellectuals can debate. Idiots just argue.”
“Love and hate can hold hands. Love and fear cannot.”
“The male cuttlefish has quite a challenge on his hands when it comes to the end of their yearly life cycle. There are four, five, even ten males for every female on the spawning grounds, so the challenge they face is, 'How do I get my genes into the next generation?' There's enormous competition among the males for the relatively few females that are on the spawning ground.”
“I used to talk about my personal life all the time. It's the most fun thing to talk about, ... the people in my life are hurt.”
“What they are doing in their personal life is not a violation of the code of conduct. (But) I was forced to report both of them to the office of professional practices.”
“Twitter: it's a way of life.”
“He fought hard ... made life very tough for me and I am very pleased with this win, ... The whole second set he played really good tennis ... he was very tough. But in that third set I really played some unbelievable tennis. This is one of the best matches I have played on Centre Court.”
“If I put $0.25 for every complaint I spoke, I would have been retired by now.”
“I've hit third all my life. But I'm hitting fourth for the Yankees. You can't beat that.”
“I'm interested in the minds of the mature and inspired.”
“I have a 25-year record on the sanctity of life. I'm not a Johnny-come-lately like Mr. Forbes.”
“Will you pledge to preserve the Ronald Reagan plank on life in the Republican party platform? Will you finally say you will enforce a litmus test for judicial nominees? Will you vow to pick a pro-life running mate?”
“You can be an evangelical and you can be self-described pro-life, but it doesn't tell us what she will do about a decision like Roe that has been set in stone now for over 30 years.”
“Instead of talking about life...go live it!”
“That could present a life-threatening condition.”
“That kind of got everybody off and running. And it just kind of took on a life of its own.”
“Nicole probably feels like it's more important to get on with the rest of her life and what she wants to do. Nicole's a smart kid and obviously she put a lot of thought into it.”
“I just know I'm excited about it. I've been told I can't do things all my life and that's usually when I get excited.”
“I told the kids in the locker room that if you're lucky in life, sometimes fate taps you on the shoulder. You want to be ready and we were ready.”
“You just witnessed the worst seven minutes of this boy's life.”
“I think this is the first time in my life I have been rendered speechless.”
“I asked whether it was constitutional for Congress to intervene in an end-of-life case with a specific remedy,”
“We didn't have much energy and life, and Andre got us going.”
“None of us have gone through life without breaking things.”
“most people go through life not paying attention to it.”
“We come then learn, then make and get, then loose then give? and keep and love and go. Then we awake, then learn more...and more...and implement and then probably we come to know what equals to 1.”
“Acknowledge that you learn just as much, if not more, from your failures as you do from your successes.”
“We're making our life very difficult.”
“To be content with life - or to live merrily, rather -all that is required is that we bestow on all things only a fleeting, superficial glance; the more thoughtful we become the more earnest we grow.”
“Our resistance to this war should be our resistance to profit at the cost of human life. Because that is what these drums beating over Iraq are really about. This is about business.”
“She makes her own rules, ... She's consistent, and she follows those rules about life and work. And she's quite cheeky.”
“It's a very strong pro-life position.”
“We must always balance measures that safeguard life with quality of life,”
“They endured life-threatening ... conditions and executed an extremely difficult and dangerous rescue mission ... It took courage and heroism for people to conclude that they would make the effort and attempt that rescue mission.”
“My entire life has been spent thinking about this game. That's pretty narrow . . . I don't view myself as a person who's well-versed in very many subjects. I'm not proud of that.”
“She's trying to talk about it and move past it. Life has to be allowed to continue even after the dream of life is over. That's one of my favorite lines in the play that represents the character.”
“We go through phases - remaining the same person with different faces. Places, things, they all seem a dream. Reality and fantasy just rips at the seams.”
“Love is like a friendship caught on fire. In the beginning a flame, very pretty, often hot and fierce, but still only light and flickering. As love grows older, our hearts mature and our love becomes as coals, deep-burning and unquenchable.”
“Live in the present, do not think that it will be there forever, whether it is happiness or pain.”
“People think all I am is Mr. Walton, ... I've done books and movies and radio. My life has covered the entire span of commercial TV.”
“I know I won't be getting Stanley Cup bonus money anymore. But it's a less hectic life in college.”
“If you go looking for a friend, you're going to find they're very scarce. If you go out to be a friend, you'll find them everywhere.”
“I had decided even before the playoffs I was going back to the academic life.”
“If life were fair, everyone would get to win a state championship. We consider ourselves lucky to have two in a row.”
“Judo is like a ballet, except there's no music,and the dancers knock each other down."”
“I've learned that no matter what happens, or how bad it seems today, life does go on, and it will be better tomorrow.”
“Back then it was part of life. Today, they want to make another law.”
“I only hope to be as good of a person as my dog thinks I am.”
“when all is dark,
night has fallen,
the magic begins”
“If this is the worst thing that happens in your life, then you're doing pretty good.”
“There's a lot more important things in life and a lot more things happen in life. You just have to keep them smiling.”
“A life without fame can be a good life, but fame without a life is no life at all”
“It has been a life-long pursuit for me, ... Running is an affair of youth. It helps you through adolescence and, for me of course, at a certain point it opened doors. I met people, and traveled. Of course it can make life more exciting and fulfilling.”
“I want to tell the public -- life is normal, they can return to it,”
“Basically, you're shooting (to return) for the playoffs. It's disappointing, but life goes on. I'll be all right.”
“There is a possibility of worker, resident and marine life exposure to hazardous materials.”
“To be a beautiful person, fill your life with other beautiful people, places and things.”
“Any day you can get released. It's the best years of your life, and everybody's playing with this reckless abandon and terror.”
“The final phase of Sarah's project will be seeing how the new artwork blends into daily life at the school, subtly interacting with students and becoming a landmark that will continue long after she graduates this spring.”
“It was a major change of life from facing no responsibilities to becoming more mature and responsible.”
“Everything we do is for those girls. They are my life.”
“That's what really determines what the quality of life is there.”
“It was a major change of life from facing no responsibilities to becoming more mature and responsible.”
“If most people are not willing to see the difficulty, this is mainly because, consciously or unconsciously, they assume that it will be they who will settle these questions for the others, and because they are convinced of their own capacity to do this.”
“Everything we do is for those girls. They are my life.”
“I would expect there to be considerable damage, heavy flooding and unfortunately there's a possibility of significant loss of life.”
“We got a new lease on life.”
“You can wind up with a life-long stigma. There really are no secrets in the world.”
“He was trying to bring to life Russian culture.”
“I tell people retirement isn't what you think. You are going to sit around and waste your life, you can only golf so much. To stay young, you have to stay in the mix.”
“In this war, some of our best citizens have made the ultimate sacrifice, ... We mourn the loss of every life. We pray for their loved ones, and we will honor their sacrifice by completing the mission and laying the foundation for peace.”
“He's a man of integrity and fairness and throughout his life he's inspired the respect and loyalty of others,”
“Today, America is confronting another disaster that has caused destruction and loss of life. This time the devastation resulted not from the malice of evil men, but from the fury of water and wind,”
“I'll be 80 years old next month. I'll never get through telling her my life. I don't have all the time it would take.”
“By their strong values and determination to create a better life for themselves and their children, immigrants from Mexico enrich American life,”
“[He said the Right to Life Committee is part of the] Washington establishment ... is in a panic mode and loading all their guns and shooting all they can.”
“It has helped some. My title is general manager, but I'm doing what I've been doing all my life, which is out selling commercials.”
““Don’t live your life by counting each breath, but in the moments that take your breath away””
“We're trying to enjoy life together as we go.”
“[Allison also recalled watching Nelson Mandela's release from prison with Gilchrist and Tom King, then sales director at Standard Life. As Mandela waved to the crowds he leaned towards his wife Winnie and whispered in her ear.] I wonder what he's asking her? ... I think it was 'Have we had that letter from Tom King yet telling us how badly our Standard Life mortgage has performed?'”
“No matter who we are, where we come from, we all go through the same experiences. Life is universal.”
“living in a fantasy is like living in a jerky world”
“Financial freedom is so intertwined with what a person wants to achieve in life. It doesn't necessarily mean never having to work again, but instead has more to do with realizing your own dreams.”
“Having a negative insights can sometimes helpful”
“Everything complex can be broken down into simple elements, but nothing is as simple as it seems, especially when you have to fix it.”
“When a dog runs at you, whistle for him”
“Charlie Wilson is a badly wounded candidate on life support.”
“I've never felt so good in my life,”
“Simplify, simplify.”
“Dreams are the touchstones of our character.”
“The vital straining towards an ideal, definite but latent, when it dominates a whole life, may express that ideal more fully than could the best-chosen word”
“I don't break the rules, I bend them. A delicate art you cannot learn.”
“Work and love -- these are the basics; waking life is a dream controlled.”
“We want people to enjoy life. Jess is probably looking down from heaven and smiling.”
“That's a tragedy when there is injury or loss of life. Other than the suspect, no one else was injured.”
“They've probably impacted my life more than I have them.”
“turn my back on someone who has failed and is doing everything possible to turn his life around.”
“We run from work, we walk from home, only when we wait for our love once, that we can move in life.”
“I've been a Democrat all my life except for six weeks.”
“Be present. Make time. Have awareness.”
“Friendship is one of the most important things in life to have. If you don't have friendship are you really living a good life?”
“We've all had disappointments, all have had failures. That is a necessary point in life. The important thing is, how do we teach our kids to cope with disappointments?”
“There's none of the pressure of the Americas here. Here, your life is about your life, not the world's life.”
“If we did that, we'd take the life of the landfill from 30-plus years down to 10 years. The county's philosophy always has been to extend the life of the landfill. That's why we burn trash at the plant in Fosston.”
“These projects demonstrate that we can efficiently reduce emissions while at the same time increasing the producing life and ultimate recovery of conventional oil reserves.”
“Being there was some of the best years of my life. Me and my wife had some of the fondest memories during our time there.”
“They should get life sentences for every one of them.”
“It's just a matter of, does he want to do it at that point of his life, and that point of his career? Certainly, he's the guy that's been a big part of the organization for a number of years. From my point of view, I'd love to have him back, if that's of interest to him.”
“He's been wrestling all of his life, and his goal was to get to the state championship in Hershey. He achieved his goal.”
“However this life is unbalanced”
“I have been fortunate to devote my entire professional life to education. I meant it from the bottom of my heart when I said no child should be left behind.”
“If he's made a better play in his life in a baseball uniform, I'd like him to tell us about it.”
“He told me he was sick of this life. He wanted this to be over.”
“The prime minister remains in a critical but stable condition. His life is not in danger after yesterday's intervention.”
“You have to remember we're just performers, that we seldom have any kind of grasp on real life.”
“His life is in danger and his condition can be described as critical and unstable.”
“there's people from all walks of life working hard to protect the American people.”
“One could say that the life of the prime minister is in danger.”
“He was having the run of his life.”
“From the cradle to the grave, Dwayne exhibited a life of determination, character and perseverance.”
“People with disabilities want the same things we do: an interesting and meaningful daily life, close relationships with others, opportunities to socialize, a chance to realize their dreams, be a part of their communities, to feel that they are valuable and important. In Dillon, it is clear that these special people are actively celebrated and supported.”
“Damnedest thing I ever saw in my life. I believe Joe Carter might have taken the centerpiece of the ball. The umpire didn't know what to do, so they gave him a single.”
“It really touched me from a mental aspect as far as my purpose in life.”
“What greater thing is there for two human souls than to feel that they are joined ... to strengthen each other ... to be at one with each other in silent unspeakable memories.”
“So I love the Temples, and what can I say? They kind of saved my life.”
“Growing up and knowing how hard it is for African-American people to sometimes get things in life you really appreciate this opportunity.”
“I've never seen so many good saves in a game in my life by a goalie. They beat us at our game, and our game is outworking teams and directing pucks to the net and they did a good job at that. That's the hard part to swallow.”
“I've just made a mistake. The best thing about it is...I realized it. I acknowledged it. I own it. And I've learned from it. It's called present time awareness.”
“Kids see it as the glamorous life, they see this as a way out. Until we come up with a way to fix the family, it's going to get a lot worse before it gets better.”
“He made my life a joy. I was just fortunate to come along at the same time he did. Let's be honest. I rode the coattails and a lot of coaches did and fans did, and a whole bunch of people got on board and rode that train right with him, and he was driving.”
“It's always tough to lose a friend under the conditions his life was taken.”
“a life-and-death, blood-and-sinew, emotional, painful step.”
“In some ways it feels like I've been here half my life. Yet at the same time, it's only my junior year of college.”
“I've never prayed so hard in my life. I couldn't watch TV anymore. I felt so sorry for those people.”
“That is almost impossible to do -- to prove that a pregnancy would literally cause you to lose your life.”
“You learn something every day, if you're not careful!”
“Aid can make the difference between life and death...there is a will to come to an agreement. Much is still to be done.”
“That's the most life I've seen in El Duque's fastball, but he seemed to lose it after 100 pitches.”
“I think this doesn't help his standing on the Hill. I think [Biggs] would have made life much easier for Pitt.”
“I'm not going to dwell on it, but I think that, in most walks of life, that would be the case,”
“So much of life [is] a putting-off of unhappiness for another time. Nothing [is] ever lost by delay.”
“There comes a time in everyone's life where you have to face bad news. Illinois is at that point.”
“Juan was a modern-day Ellis Island immigrant. He left his native country of Argentina to make a new life for himself and his family as a pilot in the United States.”
“City of Hope extended my wife's life for 12 years, and now it's time to pay back. We are on a mission to make a difference for tens of thousands of families like ours.”
“This is life as art.”
“His whole life was those kids, and those kids love him, too. He wanted to get the kids playing. He believed in it. He had a dream.”
“They were larger than life all the time. That was no act.”
“He was restarting his life out there. We were trying to convince him to come back and put the uniform on again, and we were getting close.”
“Woman's dearest delight is to wound Man's self-conceit, though Man's dearest delight is to gratify hers”
“He restarted his life. There were some differences (with the Twins).”
“He was restarting his life out there. He was thinking about getting married again. We were trying to convince him to come back and put the uniform on again, and we were getting close.”
“We'll take them any way we can get them. The guys are showing a little life.”
“In the Dark Age of Kali Yuga, the Messenger of Death is the enemy of life, but he acts according to the Lord s Command.”
“This thing wrecked my life for a while. Closure, an arrest is what we need.”
“I am forever a sacrifice to the Guru, who has taught me about God, the Life of the World. I am every bit a sacrifice to the Guru, who has spoken the Name of the Lord.”
“It's something I've done my whole life, just trying to put the ball in play. Most of the time it comes out is when I have two strikes. I get in a big hurry and swing at bad pitches.”
“But for disloyalty to her husband a wife is censured among men, and ,in her next life she is born in the womb of a jackal and tormented by diseases, the punishment of her sin.”
“This body horse was created by the Lord. Blessed is human life, which is obtained by virtuous actions.”
“Let him not step on hair, ashes, bones, potsherds, cotton seed or chaff, if he desires long life.”
“I could've taken steroids my whole life and never gotten 3,000 hits.”
“The Creator has made my whole life fruitful, I chant the Name of the Lord.”
“Know the rules if you want to break them.”
“The Name of the Lord is the companion of my breath of life, without it, I cannot live for an instant or a moment.”
“Without the Guru, I have no other friend. The Guru, the True Guru, is my very breath of life.”
“The Life of the world, the Life of the world, the Great Giver has led me to meet and merge with the Guru.”
“He is my Beloved Husband Lord, the Life of the World for whom should I weep?”
“For in this world there is nothing so detrimental to long life as criminal conversation with another man s wife.”
“Through virtuous conduct he obtains long life, through virtuous conduct desirable offspring, through virtuous conduct imperishable wealth, virtuous conduct destroys ,the effect of inauspicious marks.”
“O Nanak, fruitful is the life of that being, within whose heart the True Lord and Master abides.”
“She is a great singer, a tabloid giant and enjoys life to the full.”
“Eric is looking forward to being a Buffalo Bill, as he always has. A Buffalo Bill for life.”
“Having the (Pacific Life Open) tournament there provides a certain amount of synergy.”
“We'll see. I enjoy coming to the ballpark every day. It's a good life. Mentally I don't want to give it up.”
“It's not trying to be either negative or positive; (our music) is just a glimpse of what life looks like when you come of age,”
“[Brown] resurrected us. The game was over. Travis gave us life, there's no question.”
“The celebration of success overshadows the challenges that were encountered along the way.”
“Charlotte Church is our woman of the year simply because she is larger than life.”
“I think he should be in prison the rest of his life without parole. I don't know how he can live with himself. I couldn't, and I just hope he realizes the people he's hurt, and then I hope justice comes through to make him pay for it.”
“His whole life was those kids and those kids love him, too.”
“Just like in real life, we don't want to settle. We really want this guy to be perfect.”
“We know we've had some loss of life. We really don't know how much. There are credible accounts of 50 to 80 in Harrison County. Those are not confirmed, but they're credible,”
“We want him to be really good looking, set in his life, determined, have charisma and be really well spoken. We also want every girl in America to fall in love with this guy.”
“The elections are important for the Afghanistan of today and tomorrow, ... We are going to have a new life.”
“Charlotte Church is our Woman of the Year simply because she is larger than life, ... She might not be to everyone's taste, but the fact that she doesn't care about that makes her even more wonderful.”
“The scale of the deal speaks volumes. This is a seminal event in the life of the company.”
“The poorest, sickest and oldest Americans face grave risk of losing their life-saving medications once the clock strikes 12 on New Year's.”
“Her life will become a testimony to observe from a distance, and inspire us to fight for a better tomorrow.”
“It's the most exciting time of my life,”
“Her life mattered and he took it all away.”
“It gives you hope in salvation and perspective in the life that we live today. It's nice to know there's good out there in a world full of terror and evil.”
“. . . voyage through death/ to life upon these shores.”
“It was the longest season of my life. Without a doubt.”
“I have a gift, the most wonderful gift of my life, a Christmas gift was given by my son.”
“The perception of your actions is far more important than your intention.”
“Dick Poplar plays a special part in my life ... Some folks say he was just a cook. Well, that is one of the most depressing things people say about the war. Because for every soldier that's in the field, there are 10 soldiers supporting them.”
“When your are playing for the national championship, it's not a matter of life or death. It's more important than that.”
“To divide one's life by years is of course to tumble into a trap set by our own arithmetic. The calendar consents to carry on its dull wall-existence by the arbitrary timetables we have drawn up in consultation with those permanent commuters . . .”
“A person who is enjoying life, working, going about their business and then all of a sudden they have to figure out how to live the rest of their life in a wheelchair.”
“I'm delighted that there was no violence, and there was no loss of life in their rescue.”
“For example, Georgia rarely sentences children to life without parole, but it has youth crimes rates lower than Missouri, which imposes the sentence on child offenders far more frequently, ... the harshest prison sentence possible.”
“He would read scores like most of us read novels. Even at the end of his life, when he wasn't conducting any more, he would sit down and read scores without any music going — just hearing the music in his head.”
“This is life-affirming drama for all the family. Hopefully all ages will watch - mum, dad, granddad, nieces and nephews.”
“I told my coach that I've never felt so good in my life before a match in my life. We finally got one.”
“The Hollywood cinema, dominated by corporations, is now (with even the future of life on the planet in jeopardy) given over to the project of 'not letting people think'.”
“We can learn something new anytime we believe we can”
“It was funny when they wanted the life cycle left up there so they would recognize the chrysalis.”
“I can't imagine not having music in my life, playing for myself or for other people.”
“It was funny when they wanted the life cycle left up there so they would recognize the chrysalis.”
“Good government is that which delivers the citizen from the risk of being done out of his life and property too arbitrarily and violently - one that relieves him sufficiently from the barbaric business of guarding them to enable him to engage in gent”
“Although positive thoughts and affirmations create results, none of them matter without what matters most - action.”
“He's never been arrested for anything in his life. He's never seen a state prison and he's 23 years old.”
“Your Life is the sum of your Dreams ... Dare to Dream, Dare to Live and remember You are as Big as the Dream you Dare to Live”
“When friendships deepen and evolve over time, its a beautiful thingy.”
“I was horrified at what I saw going on in the prison system. People were serving life terms for crimes they didn't commit. Lives were wasting away.”
“One night some short weeks ago, for the first time in her not always happy life, Marilyn Monroe's soul sat down alone to a quiet supper from which it did not rise.”
“Your life is at stake. If you don't step up, it could be you or your family tomorrow.”
“Please don't destroy another life. Please give her a chance to prove she can do something good.”
“True enemy of life is... Boredom”
“Lack of affordable workforce housing creates quality-of-life issues. The people we want to help are the people who are your neighbors, people who work at the stores, at the coffee shops. They're teachers, nurses, police officers. One of the great thrills of my business is when I hand the keys to a first-time buyer and they walk into the place and it's theirs. I've had people kiss the walls.”
“One day you retire, and you get a social life.”
“To distinguish among those who died diminishes our need to honor life, all life, and to commemorate the sacrifice of all lives in an attack on our nation.”
“Life shouldn't be printed on dollar bills.”
“Life will never be boring for my character and her husband.”
“Life doesn't have a plan for you - you have to plan it.”
“Take time for yourself. Sit back and relax because this is going to be a life changing experience.”
“One truly knows he is bored with life, once he attempts to become insane.”
““If you are craving your wants, first ask your needs.””
“His health is not good and we're just really, really concerned with his life at this point. We love him, we're praying for him and we're doing everything we can to get him home as soon as we can.”
“It was the most horrible thing I've ever seen in my life.”
“That means that a physician could determine that a woman could be paralyzed for life and it would not be considered an adequate exception under this legislation,”
“I needed a spark in my life. You become closer to the Lord. The word becomes alive and real. After the class, I felt God was talking to me and I knew my purpose was to bring his love to others.”
“The important things often are are the everyday things.”
“Treasure doesn't have to be sought after...most of the time, it is right in front of your eyes, right under your feet. Recognize the everyday treasure that is your life.”
“Don't stretch your luck too far, you never know when you may run out of it.”
“Control the things you can control. The things you cannot control don't matter.”
“LIFE IS VERY SIMPLE WE MAKE IT COMPLICATED BY FOCUSING TOO MUCH IN OUR PROBLEMS RATHER THAN FINDING SOLUTION FOR IT.”
“THE GREATEST TRAGEDY OF LIFE IS THAT WE REALISE THINGS VERY LATE IN OUR LIFE AND BY THE TIME WE REALISE IT,ITS TOO LATE.”
“It's demeaning and pejorative. I have fought the [JAP] stereotype my whole life. We would like Bucks County people to know that the word JAP is offensive. When people use the word JAP, they assume that there's nothing inside my brain, that I've done everything just for me.”
“just because theres a goalie, doesnt mean you cant score”
“Be who you are and say what you feel because those who mind don't matter and those who matter don't mind.”
“A novice is someone who is no longer in the safe confines of a peaceful life, but has not yet achieved great insight into how to live in peace.”
“The lay person doesn't have that training so their response to a life-threatening situation isn't always the same or as heroic as you would like it to be.”
“Inspire with Love.”
“This exhibition has been a fantastic learning experience for me. A good project is the best kind of life class.”
“I think that what's so interesting about her is that she took to an extreme her embrace of peasant life even though she was a singing and dancing European intellectual.”
“We need to talk to our parents about the tough end-of-life issues. Our loved ones probably want to talk about these things but are afraid of upsetting you.”
“It was a dark time in my life.”
“Let living be one of your priorities.”
“He's got a lot going right now in his life. He's got to figure it out for himself.”
“We want to develop this facility, to bring some life back into it. Right now, we're new in the area. As we get to know more people, we'll get more of an idea what we're going to do. The Kings were good people and they were good business people. They've made this transition a lot easier.”
“Major disasters involving heavy loss of life have just shot up. It's in direct correlation to profits and production. They're ignoring safety in the interest of bringing the coal up to the surface.”
“That's life in the MAC. When you come out with low energy, you're going to get beat.”
“Hiring a life coach is one tool people can use to cope with the demands.”
“That probably saved her life.”
“It has probably impacted my life the most. Sport has given me so much ... knowing how to work hard toward something, knowing how to appreciate what you have. Whether you win or lose, the experience that I've had has changed my life.”
“Above all else, we want to improve the quality of life in the community. This is a good thing.”
“One of the things that is wrong with us is that when we love something, we cannot see what's wrong with it.”
“Life is a polynomial equation with a leading exponent of positive infinity, so you will never run out of solutions.”
“Coming here every day, this was her life. She's truly going to be missed.”
“Talking about sacrificing in terms of giving up a couple of hours compared to giving up a life, they just don't match.”
“I was one of those kids, who...well let's just say that theater really saved my life. It has always been an outlet for me. I really wanted to be an actor.”
“Americans of all ages deserve quality end-of-life medical care.”
“After Tamara was shot, she pleaded with God to save her life.”
“This has made clear in a particularly vivid way that your life chances, not only in ordinary times but in times of disaster, vary a lot with the kind of resources your community has.”
“I know that the officer joins me in being very sorry that Mr. Mann lost his life.”
“It was a life-changing experience, and other than my children being born, I don't think I've had another one of those, ... It might sound hokey, but I know I'll be a better person and American for going over there.”
“My new found section of belief and existence really has opened my eyes to a new sense of life, its good to not bind yourself to one persona, have many and you really will LIVE...LIFE.”
“Getting advice is like money, the more u have the more wealthy you are in soul and intellect,and u can use that advice whenever your life calls for it,so you'll never go through life broke or needy.”
“We have painted our walls and added quilts for texture, pictures of home and farm life to make the area as homelike as possible. We add new ideas and change the atmosphere to meet the needs of our residents.”
“Heaven radiates the light of the future and a is mark of repentance and the only way to get there is to sell off successes and buy failures.”
“Too much research kills spontaneity.”
“I don't think he ever cheated a day in his life.”
“Life is all about Living, Forgiving and Loving!”
“I would rather die a meaningful death than to live a meaningless life.”
“Do the thing you fear, and the death of fear is certain”
“He's been in such a loaded weight class his whole life, and he's always been the underdog, always been overlooked, and yet he comes away with title after title. With the quality of wrestlers, it's probably the toughest weight class at the national championship and (the toughest to) walk away with two national titles. He has to be categorized as one of the best of all time.”
“Too many children are not getting a healthy start in life; they are not getting proper preventive medical care; and they are not getting a nutritious diet. The cost to them, and to all of us if we continue down this path, will be overwhelming.”
“We are extremely sorry about it. It's very sad that the young boy's life has come to an end so soon.”
“If you are in a certain life situation where illegitimate access to your cell records could cause problems, like a nasty divorce or custody case or a business lawsuit, or you're the victim of a stalker, you're vulnerable. Your adversary could obtain your cell phone records through a broker and use them against you.”
“One individual doesn't really accept the pro-life position of the party, and the other ... says he supports it and takes a position that is logically inconsistent.”
“He knows there is more to life then baseball and an affair like this is tremendous for someone at his age. He is a veteran now. I am not going to ask him to carry my bags anymore.”
“At times I feel as though I am the elephant in the room of my own mind.”
“Why wouldn't he? That's how a lot of things are in this game, in life.”
“Believe it or not, he has dedicated his life and his ideal to his country and to his nation.”
“Art is long, life short, judgment difficult, opportunity transient.”
“A gift of praise, recognition, gratitude, appreciation, and love is treasured forever.”
“Young people have a much better success rate of turning their life around now so they do not become adult sex offenders.”
“Life never ceases to amaze me”
“Forgiveness is the Best Gift You can Give Yourself, it Allows You to Live Fully in the Present Moment.”
“He and I were opposites on the screen and in real life in many ways, because I was an extension of Dobie and he was an extension of Maynard.”
“We need new leadership to defeat Melissa Bean. She doesn't represent our values ... I'm pro-life, pro-gun fiscal conservative.”
“There is nothing more agreeable in life than to make peace with the Establishment -- and nothing more corrupting.”
“I owe nothing to Women's Lib”
“Little did I know then that I would be tied to that role the rest of my life!”
“No one would remember the Good Samaritan if he'd only had good intentions - he had money too”
“Disciplining yourself to do what you know is right and importance, although difficult, is the highroad to pride, self-esteem, and personal satisfaction.”
“This law puts Massachusetts at the forefront of life science research, which holds the promise of curing many of the country's most devastating diseases. She's confident that any ethical issues raised by current research techniques will be rendered moot by the development of more scientific procedures.”
“You know Carlos might have had a life-altering experience. He knows how close he came to being real seriously [hurt] and how bad Cam is. You can see why he's been changed.”
“We found that patients with Alzheimer's disease had lower levels of physical activity earlier in life,”
“Hey, life goes on. It's another day in the winter.”
“With the support of the hotel community, we were able to bring this incredible dream to life. I'm thankful for and proud of our colleagues in the hospitality industry.”
“Television should be kept in its proper place-beside us, before us, but never between us and the larger life.”
“One must die to life in order to be utterly a creator”
“My whole motivation to get to this point was because I didn't want my little brothers to live the life that I lived,”
“I've been living here my whole life and I'm sure the neighbors who know me will be rooting for me, but I'm sure a lot of people in Novato aren't, ... Sometimes I do feel like people are against us, but all we think about is how we play on the field. We don't pay attention to that stuff.”
“To divide one's life by years is of course to tumble into a trap set by our own arithmetic. The calendar consents to carry on its dull wall-existence by the arbitrary timetables we have drawn up in consultation with those permanent commuters, Earth and Sun. But we, unlike trees, need grow no annual rings.”
“Thank God that Kevin was in the best shape of his life.”
“I've been an avid sportsman all my life, and this is a neat way to get involved with protecting wildlife and being a steward of the land.”
“Today, you have 100% of your life left.”
“The real world was just too real, and we didn't want to be a part of normal life. We wanted to create a magical world for the three of us.”
“You have to keep the fights clean and the sex dirty.”
“I find it very, very hard. He was part of the fabric of my life. We were kids together, and teenagers. We spent the whole of our lives with each other because of our music.”
“They've lived in that home forever. As a matter of fact, I think Steve has lived there all his life. I know Steve has done a lot of work on that house. They're just a really nice family.”
“I have met more people on a first name basis in one year than I have in my entire life. We are real people. We are the people who live in your community and care about each and every one of our customers and their quality of life.”
“I don't think that anybody realizes that one murder has such a domino effect on everybody's life, and the Westervelts are suffering as much as we are. They've also lost their son as well, so it's tragedy all around.”
“There are three main aspects of college for golfers: golf, academics and a social life. At the highest level, you have to pick two of the three, because you don't have time for all three.”
“We can see how this awesome cosmic generator actually works. The Crab Nebula has really come to life.”
“[When his illness inspired him to sort through his possessions, to prepare for a fate he was hoping to fight off, Chironna found a photo of himself and Morrison that Weis had signed.] Thank you for your guidance, advice, teaching and friendship, ... Thank you for helping me to build character and become a better person. Without you, I would never have attained my goals. Hopefully, one day, I will be able to better show my gratitude.”
“Life is better when you know where you are going, happier when you know who is going with you, and more exciting the closer you get to your destination!”
“It was quite a heady time. Living in a guesthouse in the hills and just having a crazy life. And I think that getting there and then getting divorced, all those things that are part of life, they keep these questions coming up: what are you doing with your life and why?”
“The longest two hours of my life. We just sat back and reminisced about what a good guy he was.”
“She taught for 49 years and subbed for eight years after that. I thought through most of my life that's where I'd be heading, but in my early 20s I thought that maybe it wasn't right for me.”
“The performance is all about life, hope and energy.”
“Even though we lost that last game, this (season) was the best time of my life. That one loss, although I was upset at the time, cannot bring down my whole season. We accomplished a lot and should be proud of what we've done.”
“We never expected it to take off like it did. It took on a life of its own.”
“Elektra is larger than life and wears her sexuality on her sleeve. So I was wearing clothes that were 100 per cent sexy. And just giving in to that.”
“He had a really lovely life. We had lots of fun, ... He was a man with a great spirit.”
“The earth is enjoyed by heroes"—this is the unfailing truth. Be a hero. Always say, "I have no fear."”
“To succeed,you must have tremendous perseverance,tremendous will.
"I will drink the ocean" says the persevering soul,"at my will mountains will crumble up". Have that sort of energy, that sort of will,work hard and you will reach the goal.”
“There's probably a variety of alien life visiting our planet.”
“I've never been so humbled in my life,”
“In his words, they lack the basic elements of life and are particularly short of food,”
“Maybe we should live life as one long, romantic, breathtaking dance. Enjoying ever step instead of trying to get to any certain point.”
“This amazing cast of renowned, talented Hollywood actors brings the rich storyline of GUN to life.”
“I'm not a Sundance guy either. I've never had applause lasting over two minutes in my life but we had a 17-minute standing ovation.”
“Irresponsibility is part of the pleasure of all art; it is the part the schools cannot recognize.”
“Except for getting married, it's the highlight of my life so far, ... It's really fun to go out there and compete against one of the best teams and organizations in the history of the game.”
“Her quality of life had been deteriorating for some time, so I was relieved that she was now at peace, but I still missed her greatly.”
“When I became chief of the life squad, my goal was to build a nice building where we could sleep and get out faster.”
“It's a new age, ... 'Creativity' is the word in balancing your personal and work life.”
“Life is about becoming more aware of who we are and how we fit into the world, not how the world has told us who we need to be. Ultimately, everything changes, and if you stop changing, you stop growing.”
“I'd love to retouch my whole life.”
“This is something you need to own and accept about yourself. But to have a less stressful life, you must learn to expand the box and deal with the unfamiliar circumstances that may be thrown your way.”
“Be ashamed to die until you have won some victory for mankind”
“These guys are life. They have no idea how much we appreciate them.”
“He's in the best shape of his life. He's probably going through a little bit of dead-arm.”
“It's real-life talk, we don't hold back. Women are going to relate to the show on all of the issues and men will be like a fly on the wall and be able to get an insight on details about women.”
“Sing like no one's listening, love like you've never been hurt, dance like nobody's watching, and live like its heaven on earth.”
“The message is that a healthy diet early in life potentially has long-term benefits. The idea that heart disease starts in the 50s has been substantially discounted. Saturated fat is always an enemy to the arteries, at any age.”
“The opportunity being a festival queen gives to a young woman is remarkable. It teaches them a lot of life skills.”
“The tragedy of life is not that it ends so soon, but that we wait so long to begin it.”
“The opportunity being a festival queen gives to a young woman is remarkable. It teaches them a lot of life skills.”
“You run for your life.”
“I've never been through anything like that in my life. Obviously, we were all humiliated.”
“We consider that a life sentence as demanded by the prosecution is not appropriate for the defendant as we believe there are other people behind the murder.”
“There is no hunting like the hunting of man, and those who have hunted armed men long enough and liked it, never care for anything else thereafter.”
“I've never been through anything like that in my life. It was humiliating. That's what we talked about (at halftime), what it feels like to be humiliated.”
“In a world full of 'WHYs?', a word to the wise - WHY NOT?”
“Life, as he conceived of it, was a long decline from a glorious past, and if a reader approaches a newspaper in that spirit, he can find much to confirm him in his belief, particularly if he has never examined any short period of the past in day-to-day detail.”
“He looked at both me and my partner right in the eyes and took his life. Apparently, he was going to surrender, to be honest with you.”
“I wrestled better than I have my entire life. I didn't quite reach my goals, but I went out with a strong match.”
“Live life fully while you're here. Experience everything. Take care of yourself and your friends. Have fun, be crazy, be weird. Go out and screw up! You're going to anyway, so you might as well enjoy the process. Take the opportunity to learn from your mistakes: find the cause of your problem and eliminate it. Don't try to be perfect; just be an excellent example of being human.”
“The more you someone pulls on your leash, the more you pull away... so why do we keep pulling.”
“Biggest catch of his life, biggest pass of my life. It's got to be at this point.”
“Create...Rebuild...Fullfill...the difference don't matter, they all come together at the end....”
“Life is the flower for which love is the honey.”
“It was a rough Big Ten season. We had to put that behind us. I think we got new life coming into March madness. We still got that confidence. We feel we have just as good a chance of winning as anybody.”
“The National Short Story Prize will address this by filling a gap in the awards market and breathing life into this once great British literary form, helping it to identify and reward a new generation of talented UK writers.”
“We all believe that he's with God. He was a spiritual person. He saw the beauty of life, and I have no doubt in my mind that he knew God in only a way that he could.”
“There are many paths to the top of the mountain, but the view is always the same”
“I try to stay focused on my life and do try not to be brought into the Hollywood fantasy.”
“It's important for our families to be seen participating in all aspects of American life.”
“Everything in life happens for a reason and I've spent half of my life looking for those reasons!”
“With a bit more luck we might have scored a third goal, which would have made life easier in the second leg.”
“[Bruce's controversial life was chronicled in the 1974 movie] Lenny ... Honey: The Life & Loves of Lenny's Shady Lady.”
“If there's any sign of life in that campaign, I haven't been able to detect it,”
“When we are born, we have the same opportunity as everyone else to achieve success. Don’t let your past be the excuse for your failure.”
“I really have never heard an acceptance speech where 20 years of a guy's life in the U.S. Senate is kissed off in three sentences.”
“When you're an engineering student, you have a lot of stress in your life. For someone to live this way, with a condition that affects their life, for them to be committed to something and want to live life to the fullest, it really puts things in perspective.”
“I slept and I dreamed that life was all joy. I woke and saw that life was but service. I served and found that service is joy.”
“It's very difficult when you start to understand you are facing a life-threatening situation. You don't know what's going happen. It goes beyond just wondering what's going to happen to your baseball career. You wonder how your entire life might change or if you're still going to be fortunate to have a life.”
“Typically, every game has a life span, and you have what we call game fatigue. We thought it was a good time for a new game that looks and plays differently.”
“If you earn respect, keep yourself healthy and safe, you can do anything you want to in life.”
“We need to recognize the buildings that are the most dangerous and would cause the most loss of life. They need to be identified, then strengthened or replaced.”
“We envision connecting more deeply online, on mobile and on demand with key consumers throughout their various life stages -- from their unique interests to their finances to their health and well-being. We are also looking to create a more customized consumer healthcare experience, working in association with GE Healthcare.”
“It's pretty scary when the doctor looks at you and says it's either your arm or your life.”
“It's a nightmare, ... How do you live with such an embarrassment in your life? How do you live when someone makes your life so insignificant? ”
“It's not unusual for us to change a game or start a new one. Typically, every game has a life span, and you have what we call game fatigue. We thought it was a good time for a new game that looks and plays differently.”
“You must speak it and believe it in order to receive it.”
“Everybody needs a dream.”
“He led quite a great life, ... He was an Old Testament figure railing against the establishment -- a Jewish guy from New York who became a Buddhist, a poet, a musician.”
“I've never been so scared driving in my entire life.”
“Pajares was the stage of my life, the best one I've ever done in any Tour of Spain.”
“The death of my friend has made a lasting mark on my life. It was the first funeral I ever attended and that experience sparked a need to do something to help save other lives. I hope to be able to use my title as Miss America to make a lasting mark for the better.”
“I'm impressed with how knowledgeable he is in not only football, but in life.”
“What life may have in store for you may be out of stock for me”
“The underlying foundation of procrastination is laziness and lack of belief.”
“I always try to lead the clean life,”
“It's perfect timing. I couldn't ask for a better scenario in my life. I'm the luckiest man in the world right now.”
“Throwing young men out of work, throwing people into poverty and ending business life don't promote stability in the Palestinian territories,”
“Say it: “I am a champion. I am highly blessed and favored. I am sowing seeds. I am a giver. I am receiving my supernatural miracle NOW!””
“Today a young man on acid realized that all matter is merely energy condensed to a slow vibration, that we are all one consciousness experiencing itself subjectively, there is no such thing as death, life is only a dream, and we are the imagination of ourselves.”
“That's where Jennifer started her life.”
“From the standpoint of scheduling games, it makes our life a lot easier. It's tough for us to find games in January and February, and considering that this schedule will take place during the final six weeks of our season, it's perfect. That takes away a lot of the headaches we've had over here.”
“What you know is only half of the equation.”
“He's played on big stages his whole life. It's expected of him.”
“You've devoted your entire life to the law and it's clear that you love it,”
“Live your last day, today.”
“Those are the kind of plays that take the life out of the other team.”
“What do others see when they look at you? If you are strong and confident, then it will radiate from your heart and soul.”
“marriage should be one long love affair;
why else get married.”
“Overall mental health problems manifest as negative self-assessment of health, belief in a shortened life expectancy, lack of initiative, and dependency on assistance from the state.”
“Surfing helps me with soccer and life. It's a good relief where I can go chill. I don't have to worry about school or soccer.”
“We knew Christian Life was quick and physical. We wanted to slow the game down and not try to run with them. We did a good job setting the tempo.”
“In real life, one of my friends was killed in a car accident during our sophomore year.”
“You have the right to earn huge income when you pay the price for it.”
“All sorrows can be borne if you put them into a story or tell a story about them.”
“My wife has been coming down here her entire life, and we want to retire here someday. We just wanted another great reason to come here.”
“Two colors of light to symbolize stages in Buddha's life, just as different levels in the monument symbolize different stages in his life. The temple tells the entire history of Buddhism through its elaborate designs and sculptures. I wanted my design to help tell the story of the temple and the story of the people who built it.”
“The mindset to make money equals instant failure. Believing that you have the right to earn income so that you can bless others will provide financial freedom for yourself and your family.”
“You do this stuff in your own life and you figure out what kind of difference it makes. It's like the old cliche: Think globally, act locally. I try to leave the classroom with kids (or seniors) feeling they have the power to make a difference.”
“He's taught me the best experience in life is having kids. I can't think of a better thing. I'm so proud and grateful to have had this experience.”
“It was a great thing in high school, ... That's another part of my life.”
“When you make a blame sandwich, you gotta be prepared to eat it yourself.”
“She's going on with her life and gets her chance to see her friends, and she's going to be a senior, ... I know she's happy for me for what I'm doing and she's doing her thing. She's got her life and her independence.”
“Once you have asthma, you have it for life. You might not always be symptomatic. You might have it as a kid and grow out of it. But it may revisit at some point, usually when you have a stress on your life.”
“When we treat man as he is, we make him worse than he is; when we treat him as if he already were what he potentially could be, we make him what he should be.”
“Most of my adult life I had this towering contempt for America.”
“Illegal aliens continue to funnel directly into many of our local communities and adversely impact our way of life by overwhelming our schools, inundating our health care system and, most concerning, threatening our safety,”
“He's worked hard, he's wrestled his whole life and goes around to different states to wrestle. I think it's sad how it ended for him.”
“If you treat an individual as he is, he will stay as he is; but if you treat him as if he were what he ought to be and could be, he will become what he ought to be and could be”
“Things which matter most must never be at the mercy of things which matter least”
“Pro-family and pro-life Americans must continue to speak up and have their voices heard in this process as the Senate debates and votes on the new Supreme Court justice nominee.”
“Life will be better if we can share with any people...”
“Life is a dream for the wise, a game for the fool, a comedy for the rich, a tragedy for the poor.”
“Life is the only game in which the object of the game is to learn the rules”
“Blues for me is having things not go your way - life, love, job, money, ... It is not about the oppression of my ancestors, who were trying to get back at the overseers. Blues is different for my generation.”
“The most important thing in a your life is the image that you create for yourself. No matter how hard you might work, if others don't recognize it - it worth nothing!”
“Prosperity is so much more than riches. It is the abundant overflow in every area of your life.”
“My biggest thrill was seeing the Amish. Their way of life, to me, is just fascinating, that people in this day and time can still live like that.”
“Champion eagles soar high above the clouds while pigeons waddle around seemingly confused about their mere existence.”
“I salute and congratulate you for the future which creates what you are in the present.”
“The irony is that often those that feel the most need for control, are themselves the ones being controlled by their own fears, insecurities, and doubts.”
“My hope is that Travis Henry will be in the best football shape of his life in four weeks,”
“To Jason, life was a gift to experience and a joy. When I got the news [of his death], it was just such a horrible and powerful thing. After all we'd been through, I thought there was no way I could bear this, no way it could be real.”
“The radical left is coming up with false claims of racism because they don't like his pro-life stance or his faith in God.”
“It's just so sad that he had [lost] his life trying to help her.”
“He really hit home with a lot of the greek system. It made people think about what greek life is really about.”
“The poetry of love is the greatest gift God gave us.”
“Love, I know you before all times!”
“He had found the love of his life. She's a wonderful kid and was very special to him.”
“Don’t allow the enemy to steal your dreams through doubt, fear and procrastination. Take action today!”
“I'm the same age as some of my professors, ... But coming in to teaching later in life gives me an entire whelm of experience to teach the students.”
“Step into enemy territory with courage and defeat the giant that is in holding your dream captive.”
“Your life is your message to the world. Make it memorable.”
“More Americans seem generally lazy while many undocumented immigrants work harder for less pay because they want a better life and know what's at stake in getting that life.”
“Having a passion for something is a really great way to live your life. You can be passionate about anything, but what better thing to have a passion for than animals, for working with dogs.”
“More Americans seem generally lazy while many undocumented immigrants work harder for less pay because they want a better life and know what's at stake in getting that life.”
“Realize what you have before you discover what you've lost. Discover what you will lose if you don't realize what you have.”
“The idea of a work/life balance is much more important to younger workers than it ever was with baby boomers. Companies are looking at retention issues.”
“The idea of a work/life balance is much more important to younger workers than it ever was with baby boomers. Companies are looking at retention issues.”
“It's a culmination of your life of surfing when you turn and paddle in at Mavericks.”
“His primary concern toward the end of his life was taking care of my mom. I think he loved her more than his own life itself.”
“I've been a crazy, huge Pixies fan my entire life, since I was thirteen. As a creative partnership, and as friends, we had to regroup and make a career-defining record.”
“You look at Hoosiers , Miracle on Ice , all those terrific movies in real-life stories, that's what we were hoping for. We weren't able to overcome their talent.”
“The chief problem with modern life is not work in itself,”
“[They were] talking about life and death and that things happen for a reason.”
“In some ways, my life is on the line. I'm absolutely innocent of these charges.”
“life is nothing but choices and regrets, The problem is, the regret comes after its to late”
“We wanted a longer-term study so we could follow their life cycles, how successfully they reproduced, and then follow their offspring.”
“I think the happiest person about this decision could be Darko, ... He's possibly getting a new lease on life.”
“Competition lowers costs and increases choices for consumers. It's especially important that consumers have choices when it comes to life-saving medical treatments (such as those) involved in transactions such as this one.”
“The haphazardness of life and death is absolutely shocking.”
“I have lived my life. I am ready.”
“I urge NHTSA to issue a consumer advisory detailing the life-threatening hazards of certain Ford model trucks, which are prone to speed-control deactivation switch failure and related engine compartment fire.”
“Adversity is inevitable in life. Don’t run from it, because it will catch up to you. Face it and extinguish it from the very beginning.”
“This is greatest I've felt in my entire life, hands down.”
“If you live in Israel and you see the way life is there and then you go abroad and see the way Israel is reported on, the way that Israel gets reported on night after night is simply pictures of bombings or military actions.”
“That's a fantastic growth area. For some of these products -- milks, sports drinks -- it gives them a whole new life.”
“She was a good mom. Her babies came first no matter what. They were her life.”
“I think it's going to translate into big market share through 2001 and possibly through the life of this console.”
“The years I spent at Pacific were some of the best of my life. I met my wife and formed lifelong friendships. The education I received while learning to play competitive golf became a foundation in my personal and professional life.”
“Life insurance is the area that we think is the most ripe for consolidation and where we think we're going to see the most action taking place.”
“The key here is the life cycle. Viola is basically one of the few testing companies that have both active and passive testing.”
“The heart of a champion beats to a different drum.”
“The key here is the life cycle. Viola is basically one of the few testing companies that have both active and passive testing.”
“Other than that and the fact that I don't have to work any more my life hasn't changed a bit,”
“This is a blood avoidance program, it's not a blood elimination program. We will use blood to save somebody's life.”
“He's been playing football his whole life, and he knows how to play the game,”
“Many physicians assume that the vast majority of adult cardiac arrests in hospitals are from sudden arrhythmias, and life-support protocols reflect this assumption. Our findings show that progressive respiratory failure and shock is more common than arrhythmia in adults, and in such cases, emergency procedures should focus on breathing problems.”
“He did not want the life his father had lived. He changed diapers, he drove a minivan.”
“Your habits predict your future.”
“We have provided the young people with the tools to return to Jewish life, ... To see the young people singing at Shabbat and to see the elderly who have very little and not have to choose between food and medicine — to know we played a meaningful role was very moving.”
“Biography tends to tilt history, because every person you are writing about becomes larger than life.”
“a sort of reaffirmation of a man's station in life.”
“The court decision is another important victory for medical innovators who invest in high-risk research to develop life saving medicines, as well as for the patients who benefit from those medicines.”
“Any life that existed could not be luxuriant and would have to deal with low temperatures, feeble metabolic energy and perhaps a severe chemical environment.”
“You live your life as a biography and you have chapters and how you handle yourself in time of adversity and crises defines you.”
“That's my focus in life, taking care of our planet . . . Everybody can make a difference.”
“Don't let what you can't control end up controlling you.”
“He didn't say anything until he absolutely had to -- when his life was on the line.”
“If it looks like we're going to lose a seat, that's really going to make everybody's life more difficult.”
“I've played with and against (Anderson) almost my whole life in club. When I saw which way his plant foot was going, I knew I had it.”
“People are saying they're more comfortable with their sexuality, that they have a right to a life partner. And along with that -- if they have a loving home -- why not a child?”
“When it comes to playoffs, everything's a battle. Every 50-50 puck is a battle for your life. The team that's on a momentum swing and they're winning those battles and the pucks are going in for them is the team that's going to end up winning the championship.”
“We want to know everything about their world -- what they want to get out of their life, their relationships, their charitable and social interests. Some people want to provide for their kids. Sometimes their kids are fine, and they just want to fund their own retirement.”
“You are a seed of greatness that God has planted in this world.”
“If we have another [terrorist] attack or hurricane and need life-saving information, I think her image is that of more fluff than fact, and that's going to have an impact.”
“If I were on trial for my life, I'd want a dozen mitigation specialists to figure out ways to frame this trial in ways that would save my life.”
“It really comes to life with him spanning the 50, 60 years and he's touched all of their lives directly, it's not a six degrees of separation. It shows what a treasure he is and how lucky we are to have him around.”
“Since we have this great love for marine and animal life, it was a perfect combination to blend our artistic talents with our love for natural wild life.”
“They always kept you laughing, full of life, so my whole family is going to miss them deeply and I know God's will got them to a better place.”
“I've come to the time in my life where I'd like to step back and look at different avenues of life and see where they lead.”
“We tell the kids all the time: It's all about acts. This is a real life lesson. When you see misery, you can do something to make things better.”
“We hear a lot about disease and disability among the elderly, but the quality of life in older individuals is actually high up to the oldest of age.”
“As long as the book's vision is about something that's making life better for all people. That's our criteria.”
“I'm not taking any interest in politics. I'm not involved in politics in any way. My life is in writing now.”
“It's a life safety issue for us. We wanted to let our public know there is a problem with this particular brand.”
“To do anything you want in life, you have to start at the bottom. I figured for the dead thing, you didn't need any acting experience. God gave me bags under my eyes and made me pale, so why not use what you got to go where you want?”
“The two-way traffic between New York and Hollywood has been a fact of life since Hollywood was invented. But the traffic has really intensified in the last five years.”
“He said he had something planned. He said 'I hope I die today because I don't really like my life.”
“It's really funny to have this beard, you know, I have never really had one before in my life. My beard now has gotten really, really long, to the point that it tickles my ears. I made a promise to Carl that I would shave everything off right there in Victory Lane.”
“There's more to life than friends, drugs, alcohol and fighting.”
“Taking bold, focused action creates explosive results.”
“However, in spite of my best attempts to transform my life ... the tumor cells had returned. But now the idea of [another] surgery just feels too barbaric.”
“I never used a needle in my life. I picked up 62 needles around my yard ? 10 right out in front.”
“It's sort of a crime scene investigation. There was life here. ... We've got to pull that out.”
“You must be willing to invest time in your quest to go from where you are now to a living a champion life full of abundance.”
“Learning is replicating, understanding is creating. Learning is taking, understanding is giving”
“In the early 1900s, folks migrated from the South up North for a better life. That was the greatest mass migration in our country's history.”
“I think Idaho offers a compelling combination of quality of life and business opportunities.”
“As a child i felt cats were female and dogs were male, as an adult i understand why.”
“This is basically surplus, and the vaccine has a limited shelf-life. So instead of disposing of it, we wanted to make it available to people who may have missed earlier opportunities to get their shots.”
“Life hasn't been too bad to us, so we decided to give back to society. It's all about solidarity for kids with cancer.”
“They are pretty tough kids. They don't come from backgrounds where they've had life given to them. And they've always been willing to rise up to the challenge.”
“Are you going to choose to commit to your dream or are you going to allow society to determine who and what you will be for the rest of your life?”
“It was a tight life. We didn't have any place to stay, so the trailer was better than nothing.”
“Friendship, of itself a holy tie, Is made more sacred by adversity”
“James is tremendously positive in all aspects of life, a kid who takes everything head on, and those are big pluses for any 17-year-old to have.”
“What one decides to do in crisis depends on one's philosophy of life, and that philosophy cannot be changed by an incident. If one hasn't any philosophy in crises, others make the decision.”
“It will be a symbolic step of life from Earth, leaving Earth, and growing somewhere else.”
“If you look at our own planet Earth, for half of its history, life was microscopic. It's the first step to more complicated life.”
“He can't keep up with his life.”
“Good food makes you sweat when you're eating it and it hurts coming out!”
“I guess life just moves on, you know, ... We went quite a few years and just gave up that they would ever find them, but we never quit thinking about him and missing him.”
“These homes tell this story about what we were thinking about life and how we were shaping it. They show how important it was to us as Americans that everyone had a home.”
“When they grow up their whole life, they're bigger than other kids. So when they go 100 percent at a playground, they're just knocking kids over left and right and other parents are saying, 'Look at that big bully.' And (with) most big kids that have been big all their lives, I've found they don't give 100 percent as far as that aggressiveness, because they've been told (to) hold back so they're not the big bully.”
“My whole adult life, my dream was to live on a golf course. Now I'm not going to have a golf course ... the city is going to take it away from me.”
“You don?t know what?s going on in someone?s personal life, it could be in shambles. So many people in this world are walking on eggshells. Don?t demean them or embarrass them or threaten them.”
“Well look, I've been a prosecutor, a judge and the DA for 30 years. This is my life. This is who I am.”
“You're a beautiful girl, and you can do anything you want in life,”
“Kiss me and you will see stars; love me and I will give them to you.”
“We're all dreamers. Only the dead can't dream.”
“It's moving on with your life, it's figuring out how you sort out in your mind what has happened to you and how you're not going to let the rest of your life be controlled by an incident happening to you.”
“I'll learn from this experience and look forward to becoming very productive in life and as a student here at Maryland.”
“People that you want to hate, are the ones that need the most love.”
“There's nothing like standing at the Rotunda and looking toward Cabell Hall to relax and feel more peaceful towards life.”
“It is fair to say he has had a tremendous positive impact on my life and my business.”
“Jean was robbed of her new life. What if the defendant had called 911? What if he had been a normal person and stopped?”
“Feelings do not make a difference. It is the emotional attachment to the success that will lead to the achievement of your God-given destiny.”
“Everything we do is very funny. The more tragic life is, the more you have to laugh at it. Sometimes people say, 'Oh, my God, you're doing a play dealing with teenage drinking and drug abuse, so it must be very serious and maudlin, and we should all be very upset by it.' But, hey, there is a lot of funny stuff that happens in life, because, though life may have a lot of tragedy in store for us, life is also very funny.”
“Judicial independence is the bulwark of our system. It gives life to the words of the Constitution.”
“To love for the sake of being loved is human, but to love for the sake of loving is angelic.”
“Never turn to a Master for security for that is one thing he will never give you. He throws you upon the utter insecurity of Life because those who have nothing else find God.”
“You will never find the best when you are always looking for the worst.”
“The end is near as soon as you begin to doubt yourself.”
“I believe the best way to honor the war dead is not to get them needlessly killed in the first place. Is that too liberal for you Bush/Cheney mass murderers? You sick morons make me wish there was a hell.”
“I truly think that one day it will save a life, this technology. Whether it's disease control or tumor detection, it certainly seems like it's headed in the right direction.”
“He had a tremendous impact on my life on many aspects of it, so it was very difficult, ... He was my defense partner, my roommate, my coach when I had my best year and then I worked at Coca-Cola with him for 10 years. So both personally and professionally he's had a profound influence on my life and it's tough to see his family going through this.”
“I just can't walk away from something I've done all my life. It's a part of me.”
“Everybody's figuring how they're going to get on with their life. There's probably a shortage of 2,000 boards a week globally now. It'll be months before things are back up to speed where any Joe Blow can get a blank -- maybe even years.”
“Our people are responding to adversity with steadfast determination, yet still maintaining the spirit to enjoy life.”
“I thought I was going to be a bum the rest of my life.”
“In life, anytime you want to achieve something, you are going to have to pay a price.”
“God grants life, and God should take it away. [Do] horrible, heinous things deserve incredible punishment? You bet.”
“Confidence is unleashed as soon as you begin to trust yourself.”
“The ability to think is your most treasured asset.”
“We can all learn a lot of life lessons by watching this boy and his family.”
“There's more to life than work - just keep repeating that and maybe it will sink into us all.”
“Together, we can bring faith in the life of many children whose only mistake was to be deaf;
Bring the faith that comes by education with its tremendous power to transform and that form the basis of freedom, democracy and sustainable development.”
“I am ready to give my life if that is what it takes to defend my country,”
“Peter's life was incredibly full -- full of adventure, full of learning, full of teaching, full of love,”
“The only lasting investment is an investment in yourself.”
“Waiting for someone else to make you happy is the best way to be sad.”
“one of the best things he had done in his whole life.”
“This has the potential to improve the quality of life for millions of Americans with diabetes.”
“We know she doesn't want him convicted of this murder, ... She wants him out so they can have their life together.”
“The Doritos consumer is all about living life for the moment, and Destination Doritos will give them a fun, high-adventure way to seize the day. Destination Doritos allows each winner to pick the U.S. vacation destination that most excites them.”
“The people who live inside the country tend to know the least [about aquatic sea life]. They may never have seen dolphins or sunsets over the ocean. So it's exactly the reason why an aquarium needs to be the middle of the country, to educate the citizenry.”
“Church has been one of the most important parts of my life.”
“Each person creates the life they live by choosing the words they speak.”
“Lifestyle freedom is a mindset.”
“Men try to run life according to their wishes; life runs itself according to necessity.”
“When you sing it in meditation technique it harmonizes your own life -- you make the connection with things in your life that are near and dear to you.”
“It's pretty amazing, the type of players that he's compared to. Names that you've heard your whole life, and he's putting up those types of numbers. ... He's the type of guy who has that ability, and has a good work ethic and it shows out on the field.”
“It's pretty amazing the type of players he's compared to. Names you've heard your whole life, he's putting up those kind of numbers.”
“This is yet another example of how out-of-touch Washington, D.C. is with life in rural America, and I pledge to oppose this plan at every level.”
“The difference between the impossible and possible lies in a persons determination”
“Success is going from failure to failure without losing enthusiasm.”
“Everything lasts forever, whether it stays with you or not.”
“You have to wonder how they got it up there. But, this is what life is all about. History, which he was such a major part of. Not just being raised in Somerset, but being a famous general during the Civil War. I guess every small town wants to be connected to history through a famous person and he's who we connect with.”
“I've looked forward to this my whole life. This is what it's all about.”
“I definitely appreciate opportunities in life more than anything else after going through that. God has a way of getting your attention. I didn't know if I'd ever play basketball again. I'm very thankful.”
“When life gets hard and near unbearable, you get to find out who you really are.”
“If it was a massive stroke, this was a desperate attempt to save his life.”
“He's such a cute boy and so full of life, he's just ready to start talking.”
“In health care, for example, [network traffic that shuttles life-support data] is given a higher priority than general e-mail traffic. And for executives who engage in videoconferencing calls, video has to have priority.”
“Peter's life was incredibly full -- full of adventure, full of learning, full of teaching, full of love.”
“Go find somebody who's life hasn't been affected by a drunk driver. It pretty much touches everyone.”
“We often underestimate the power of a phone call or a personalized card in the mail. It can make a difference in a person's life.”
“What do your habits say about you? After all, they predict your level of success in life.”
“I'm just happy to be alive. I'm not that bummed. There are more things in life than a few AAU tournaments. It really doesn't bother me at all.”
“It is not an event or someones action that can change your life, it is how you react to it that makes all of the difference”
“It's not an event or someones action that changes your life, it's how you react to it that makes all the difference.”
“Intense creative episodes are, in many instances, indistinguishable from hypomania”
“My own sex life is very monogamous and happy... just a happy married sex life!”
“open, honest and completely committed to changing her life and making her home better for her family and children.”
“All of your decisions in life are based upon your foundation.”
“Faster communication does not predict success. It actually predicts quicker failure, because you are distracted by the constant multi-tasking.”
“Loving can cost a lot but not loving always costs more, and those who fear to love often find that want of love is an emptiness that robs the joy from life.”
“Being happy in God is the way we glorify Him. This is the reason we were created. Delighting in God is not a mere preference or option of life; it is our joyful duty and should be the single passion of our lives.”
“A search for true happiness is found when you look no further than your forehead.”
“Gucci for me is finished, over and gone, ... That was another chapter in my life, it's over. I am on to something else.”
“External superiority is the result of internal inferiority.”
“Those sins that seem most sweet in life, will prove most bitter in death.”
“It's really (about) putting that sort of quality and beauty back into our life.”
“Why are you nervous? Well, I guess in some ways my life is on the line.”
“I must focus on changing people's lives through my words, my actions, and how I live my life behind the scenes.”
“He is the comrade around whom the party people can coalesce. He should be chairman for life.”
“It's the biggest game of my life. It's been a long road and a long time coming for us. I can't wait.”
“I value human life and would only support expanding the death penalty for the worst types of crimes, ... I believe that this is one of those crimes that warrant this penalty.”
“Strengthening local airports in Iowa is important for economic development and improving the quality of life our rural areas and urban communities.”
“Bertie Ahern has bound a fair few coalitions of different kinds together in his life, ... It's there to be won.”
“She was splendid at loving life and passionately sharing it with all of us.”
“She was splendid at loving life and passionately sharing it with all of us.”
“have lived a life.”
“The richest man is not he who has the most, but he who needs the least.”
“We are kicking the BUT out of every negative habit.”
“It will probably lead a basic squirrel life, but it may have a slight advantage at concealment by being able to blend into shadows and shady areas.”
“It's been life-changing. It allows me to deal with the stress of my job and focus it in a positive way. And it just gives you a different outlook when you feel better about yourself.”
“A healthful hunger for a great idea is the beauty and blessedness of life.”
“"Its ok we are human and we make choices but @ the same time you have to be ok with the choices you make in your life don't be ashamed of who you are be ashamed of who you do not allow your self to be". BY: JOSHUA JASON LAIRD”
“It was the way of life. We didn't think about it much, except that it got lonely sometimes in the hotel room. The one thing we had was a home base, and we had great players who knew how to win. We didn't let it become a distraction of being nomads.”
“To reach a port, we must sail - sail, not tie at anchor - sail, not drift.”
“A ship in harbor is safe—but that is not what ships were built for.”
“Quality of life is very important, but if we don't get rid of this defect, it will eventually take her life as well.”
“Fortunately, Zeta is more of a curiosity than a life-threatening event.”
“Instead of waiting around for your dream, be relentless and go after it!”
“Swagger is not something you can buy, nor is it something that you can try, and if you don't have it at all, there is no point in trying to lie; everyone can tell. Swag is something that only a Swag Sensei can sell; now most of us hand it out for free, but we just cant hand it out to everyone, because some people don't know how to use it, and will abuse it, and still end up losing it.”
“If she gets good care when she returns to Iraq, she should live a long and full life.”
“I consider myself the luckiest girl in the world. I am blessed to have such a happy life.”
“It's made my life easier this year. The first three years I had to suffer because they were up and down. They will still come back in spurts and remind me of old times. But we're all on the same page. These guys are focused and they bring it every day.”
“That's the most fun for me, meeting them, getting to know their life, we've become a family.”
“In Europe, there's a very different attitude towards art-you're sort of given your whole life to make your work, whereas here it's, what have you done lately.”
“People make appointments for a haircut, to get their nails done, go to the doctor, get suits tailored, etc. Let me ask you a question, “When are you going to make an appointment to let
the champion out that is stuck inside of you?”
“Pressure and resistance from the enemy destroys 97% of people, but it fires up the other 3% to take more focused daily champion action.”
“Passionate persistence predicts prosperity.”
“He who shits on the road will meet flies on his return”
“When making a fire people like to join you, when cleaning the ashes you are often alone”
“Where you will sit when you are old shows where you stood in youth”
“This has been the most discouraging time in my life. I finally got what I wanted. I finally felt like I started getting what I wanted in my life, what I wanted to do. And just like that, it was all over.”
“What difference does it make whether you're looking at a photograph or looking at a still life in front of you? You still have to look.”
“Living a rich, full life is all about recognizing God in everything, honoring his word and reading His word. We give thanks through prayer. The Bible says. 'Rejoice evermore and pray without ceasing.' That doesn't mean kneeling. It means being in a prayerful attitude all day.”
“Contentment with little or nothing to eat although one may have a great appetite; to awaken instantly although one may be in a deep slumber; unflinching devotion to the master; and bravery; these six qualities should be learned from the dog.”
“Residing in a small village devoid of proper living facilities, serving a person born of a low family, unwholesome food, a frowning wife, a foolish son, and a widowed daughter burn the body without fire.”
“There's not much really to do in a hospital, but I worked a little bit, thought a lot about life and what priorities are truly important, spent quality time with Heather and Joshua, and, yes, taught him to play street hockey.”
“Pierre Trudeau dreamed of a society that afforded all of its citizens an equal opportunity to succeed in life -- whatever their background or beliefs, whether rich or poor,”
“I can tell you that it was the most embarrassing moment of my life. The weapon, which has been my duty weapon for 15 years, was never lost and was only out of my possession for five or six minutes before it was found by prison personnel and returned to me. I never denied anything or tried to cover anything up. And while it was the most embarrassing moment of my life, I can't tell you how grateful I am for everyone that showed their support when the incident became public knowledge.”
“In reality, we are appreciating the person who has led a good life and served the faith and society in general. And we pray for his soul that he will really progress in the next world.”
“I didn't think death could ever catch up with him, as great a life as he led. He was indestructible in my mind.”
“Some men like to make a little garden out of life and walk down a path.”
“Reality is being reflected by fiction”
“Life is very nice, but it lacks form. It's the aim of art to give it some.”
“Although an ass is tired, he continues to carry his burden; he is unmindful of cold and heat; and he is always contented; these three things should be learned from the ass.”
“Love is the business of the idle, but the idleness of the busy”
“Water is basic to life and with this country being just a couple hours off of out border and being the poorest in the western hemisphere, it's really exciting to be able to go down there and just with a tiny amount of money be able to improve the lives of so many people.”
“One day I was on my deathbed. The next day I was given a new lease on life.”
“To know the road ahead, ask those coming back”
“From auto, property and life insurance to retirement annuities, Horace Mann is dedicated to helping America's educators develop insurance and retirement plans to meet their unique needs - at an affordable price.”
“A sign of strength is seen in a person who asks for help.”
“Lasting influence is achieved through persuasion not coercion.”
“The ability to exchange opposing ideas is freedom in action.”
“Obesity is not a minor problem. It actually reduces life expectancy by a quarter.”
“to never forget your own insignificance. to never get used to the unspeakable violence and the vulgar disparity of life around you. To seek joy in the saddest places. to never simplify what is complicated or complicate what is simple. to respect strength, never power. above all, to watch. To try and understand. To never look away. and never, never, to forget.”
“If you don’t stick to your word, then you are jeopardizing your integrity.”
“You do more for your kids than your parents did for you. My responsibility is to make [my daughter's] life easier and better than mine. That's my job.”
“My dad was sentenced to double life, way before when there was no eligibility for early parole. He killed himself. He couldn't live with it. It was like there was no hope for him.”
“I think a man's duty is to find out where the truth is, or if he cannot, at least to take the best possible human doctrine and the hardest to disprove, and to ride on this like a raft over the waters of life”
“And then this is how she had to end her life.”
“If this keeps up, our quality of life is going in the toilet and they are getting filthy rich.”
“The Gong Show provided me with five years of the happiest times of my life, but that's that. And to be known as the guy who gave the world The Gong Show - listen, my Uncle George isn't known as anything. So I guess it isn't so bad in that context.”
“In life there is always something you feel you are meant to do and this is the one thing I feel I need to do.”
“Women are strong enough to help the men to understand. They are the givers of life and they must now protect life.”
“I had this plan to do this simple little film and life said to me, 'I'm glad you have a plan, but this is what you're going to do, ... I found out it was more, much more than just a film, when I received 50,000 emails when it first came out.”
“The grand jurors have done their work extraordinarily well, bringing to bear all of their legal powers, life experiences and shrewdness,”
“I thought that everything was lost. It only takes one mistake for you to mess up your life. I thought I would go out of jail and go home (to Texas) and get a 9-to-5 job working construction or something.”
“I would say the majority of astronomers believe there is life elsewhere, and the best place to find it would be on a planet that has conditions like the Earth.”
“These groundbreaking games helped pioneer the video game industry. We intend to bring these classics back to life by updating them with the latest technology and interactive game design, while preserving their heart and spirit.”
“This family has been devastated. Their life just got completely rearranged. It's relieving to know they are in Wisconsin now. It is unbelievable.”
“It's an exciting time, ... You're talking about life-changing money.”
“This is the kind of thing that can become life-threatening in a place like Ghana. Getting an infection there would be horrible.”
“I almost feel like I'm on life support here and I'm just trying to make it through and get another championship before I pass on.”
“I've never laced up a pair of ice skates in my life. But I didn't fall as much as I thought I would.”
“We take inspiration from the comical things in life.”
“In my entire life, I've only had two people ever thank me for my military service, ... And even then, I was shocked when I heard the words 'thank you' because you just don't expect to hear them.”
“I didn't have worries about him. I figured he would be successful. I could see him with a life serving people.”
“ If you give something away, you always get it back; and then some.”
“The life he had was well lived.”
“I'm at the point of my life when I get the most enjoyment out of other people's happiness. I'm just happy for the players and the coaches.”
“I am proud. He gave the ultimate gift, his life. He died doing what he wanted to do.”
“I feel like my whole life has been a dream to play in a game like this. I always told myself that it was a dream to make it, but it's a dream of mine that when you do make it, you act like you've been here for a while.”
“Black or non-black, gay or straight, Mrs. King dedicated her life to love, justice, equality, and global human rights and for that we are truly grateful.”
“That's one of the luxuries of playing in Marion County. There are challenges in life. It's fun. Our team looks forward to it. Our kids have worked really hard all this week to get to this point.”
“I'd never really wanted to have a really 'private' life before. But when somebody starts delving into it and printing details through the tabloids for shagging people you shouldn't have shagged, then that probably made me shy away a bit more from giving too much away.”
“The things in my songs are the edited highlights of my life. I don't go seeking out strange sexual experiences every day of the week.”
“My dad's probably the most influential person in my life. He said, 'You know, it'd be kind of cool to see your name in the Hall of Fame with that team.' We decided let's do it that way.”
“My own life planning has always been 10 years ahead. I knew when I was 13 that this was what I wanted to be. Right now I feel about nine months behind where I would have liked to be at age 46. Ten years from now, I'd like to be doing what I'm doing and collecting more interest.”
“I think when you reach this stage of your life, you're just looking for the traditional. It just seemed to put the finishing touch on the relationship. I never had children, so the thought of being a grandmother just blows me away.”
“This is a major problem that needs to be addressed. If one life can be saved because of what we're doing, I know it's been worth it.”
“Definitely his life expectancy is higher than an average American.”
“I encourage people to connect the dots. Hecht is a pro-life conservative, so we take a lot of comfort from that.”
“What we don't want to lose sight of is that a 4-month-old lost his life. That's the most tragic thing about this case.”
“It's the biggest fish I ever caught in my life.”
“Life comes from the earth and life returns to the earth.”
“They are good children. All of them. It hasn't been easy, but that's a fact of life.”
“It's the best girls I've ever played with in all my life. I love playing with them. We all know each other's game.”
“If your dream is not so big that it changes who you are, then it's not big enough!”
“I've been around Penn State my entire life, so I have a good perspective for its history. Forty years from now when they write about Michael Robinson, they'll write that he was the ultimate team player. That's all you need to know about him.”
“A March event from a PR and marketing standpoint would have a shelf life that would lend itself to your summer market, which is not nearly as lucrative for us as an October date. Now do you get a little more publicity? Do you get a little more exposure? Do your ratings nationally go up? I think maybe they all offset each other, but at the same time it is not an equal transition from October to March if you look at it strictly from PR and marketing.”
“Chomis is good.”
“This is the first time that anyone has done experiments on higher life in martian-like environment,”
“If we can save a life with this, we're happy. I think this is something visitors will heed.”
“This is incredibly exciting. What this means is that we have a chance to find ... extant life.”
“I used to be so self-centered and only thought about my own little world and what was going on in it...then I realized if I kept doing that, I would miss out on seeing the BIG picture.”
“The testing of life support systems will certainly be useful, ... But on the psychological side, the real human factor is not whether people go crazy living in a tin: they don't. It's whether they can put up with the overwork once they arrive on Mars and start a rigorous programme of field exploration.”
“There is a reason for every season. If you don’t have the season of emotional darkness, then you can’t enjoy the season of sunshine.”
“Sometimes the unsaid things is the ones that matter”
“The U.S. presence, both in security and economic terms, is a daily fact of life as people saw on December 26 (when the U.S. mobilized its military to provide aid to tsunami victims). We have many ways in which we interact with the region,”
“I've been here 16 years so I've known him most of his life. Every year I see him in the gym and the first place I ever saw him was in a gym. He is always in a gym and always has been.”
“We want you to find stories that are relevant, [that] you can apply directly to your life. Surprising, in-depth, contextual stories that help us make good decisions about the future.”
“We must get out of the boat, but don't get out before He tells you to walk or you might sink.”
“Loooooong-suffering is the “fruit” that takes the longest to ripen, that is why we are thrown into manure piles to help fertilize it.”
“It's a big deal. This is our life sort of wrapped into six weeks now. It's time for us to get it done. If you're in it, it's the best thing that could ever happen to you. It's more pressure, but everything in life, the more competitive it is the better it is. And this is pretty good.”
“I come back and still seek advice on my marriage and on anything else that's going on in my life,”
“Silence is the true friend that never betrays.”
“It's real sad and it just puts things in perspective for life.”
“The child-bearing years are an exciting time in a woman's life and there are a number of steps they can take to be healthy, benefiting both them and their future child.”
“I think I'm pretty good defensively. That's what I've been able to do all my life is play defense.”
“[Then came Welles' 1941 masterpiece,] Citizen Kane, ... a high point in a lucky life.”
“My life has changed because of watching my diet, exercising, just having a better attitude in life.”
“When it is obvious that the goals cannot be reached, don't adjust the goals, adjust the action steps.”
“He's just a solid technician and looks like he's been running his whole life.”
“The things that got me through grade school are helping me out later in life. It's like, I show up on time. If you buy a ticket to one of my shows, I'll show up. I'll be there. And if it says 10:00, I'll be on stage at 10:00.”
“Jim Green had better be ready . . . Jim Green is going to have the fight of his life.”
“This is the most expensive six minutes I've ever spent in my life.”
“A man without ambition is dead. A man with ambition but no love is dead. A man with ambition and love for his blessings here on earth is ever so alive.”
“Lose your Ego, Find yourself.”
“You have to wait. It's just part of life. You have to wait for things.”
“Remove the shackles from me and set me free, free to be the woman you desire me to be.”
“God is in the demolition business, he knocked down the wall I resurrected around my heart.”
“I've never had any monetary motive in my life. I've never taken a nickel from the industry.”
“What we're concerned about is providing a Web site for students that's a reflection of everyday student life. If that means at times they're engaging in behavior that some people don't like, well that's an issue that can be talked about.”
“Puffy Gains Real-Life Foothold on 'anime' -crazy U.S. Market”
“What WE can do together Far exceeds what we can do alone.”
“When you boil it down, life is made up of our minute-to-minute experiences. And once we begin to become more aware, at some point we discover a fundamental truth: life is not positive or negative, it just is.”
“Being in resistance to 'what is'—fighting gravity all the way down—is what makes life brutally demanding. Life is naturally much easier than we make it. Trees grow, flowers bloom, birds fly, sloths don't seem to do a hell of a lot, and I assume that platypuses do platypussy things – all without resistance to “what is.” All species are designed to live that way: without resistance. Except humans. We complicate things and make life hard for ourselves by resisting life as it is. We try to change things over which we have no control. We want gravity to be different, for the immutable rules that govern our existence to somehow be suspended for us.”
“Be extravagant, there's always a frugal tax payer to bail you”
“If happiness is the only prize we seek in life, then we will be guaranteed to spend a good part of our lives deep in disappointment, focused on a very small prize indeed.”
“You've got to try and normalize your life. I just walked around every morning, the same as I do here (in Connecticut).”
“I'm surprised at how much Facebook.com has burrowed itself into real life along with instant messaging, text messaging and e-mail, ... It's another reason to be on the 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Net. So many people come back because it's fun and useful. They use it to find people, they meet people, organize a party and so many other things.”
“If you're a person on foot, you take your life into your own hands,”
“Choosing to live an extraordinary life is simple. This does not, however, mean that it is easy.”
“I told one couple that here I'm free. Many came from inner city New Orleans. Many had a better life here (in the shelter).”
“The payoffs for choosing drama as a way to handle the events of your life are myriad. How about temporarily satisfying, long, go-nowhere conversations that serve to lower the intelligence level of all involved?”
“If you are not really at peace with what has happened in your life, then you have not truly accepted responsibility for the events themselves, and for your response to them. Any lingering resentment or regret simply means that you still want to lay blame, either at your own door or someone else's.”
“It's critical that we conduct our oversight in a manner that does not interfere with the life-and-death work being done.”
“My body's had it. I feel like I'm a lot older than I am. I've lived my basketball life. I've enjoyed it and it's time to move on to what in my opinion are bigger and better things.”
“……. if we accept the reality that life is difficult, demanding and often painful, then the day-to-day living of it is no longer so onerous. In accepting life as it really is, we transcend it. Or, as they say on Wall Street, ‘The market has already discounted the bad news.’”
“I see my life as a part of the earth, a patch of ground to be cultivated. This field I have chosen to call joy. What grows in the field will be some grasses called happiness, and some called anguish, sadness, and disappointment. They are not permanent. They grow, wither and die. But the field of my being remains joyful.”
“The prime minister's life is still in danger. Every day, although we are getting further out of danger, we are still in danger.”
“A committed person is focused on his ultimate destination.”
“My first day in Chicago, September 4, 1983. I set foot in this city, and just walking down the street, it was like roots, like the motherland. I knew I belonged here.”
“Paradoxically, perhaps, there seems nothing enduring to be gained in terms of meaningful life change purely from leisure, from having a great time. If you or I could redesign the world we'd certainly do it very differently, so that every time we took a magic vacation at some tropical paradise we would return full of more wisdom than the World Encyclopedia of Philosophical Quotations. Until then, we are well advised to accept the reality that the great lessons in life usually come to us through some form of extreme hardship.”
“This stuff contains the building blocks of life, and now we can say they're abundant in space. And wherever there's a planet out there, we know that these things are going to be raining down on it. It did here and it does elsewhere.”
“I raised Christopher to cherish life and to cherish each other every single day, ... Christopher was a man with a conscience and he was raised as a Christian. I think the one thing I am most proud of about Christopher was his heart condition. He was a giver to anyone who asked. He was a man of his word. And he was loyal. All of these things are conditions of the heart that I know I helped to develop and instill in him.”
“She has finished college classes and graduated and got her life together. She has helped others get their lives together.”
“Bob gave up his own life to save this 6-year-old boy,”
“There once was a time that the assumption was that the origin of life, everything from building simple compounds up to complex life, had to happen here on Earth. We've discovered that some very biologically interesting molecules can be formed outside our earthly environment and delivered here.”
“My occupational status is retired. My way of life is, I work as hard as I can.”
“It's an important new contribution to (understanding) a very, very important transition in the history of life.”
“We ought not politicize the rhetoric about war and life and death.”
“My mom was my biggest influence in life. She was there for me the whole time. When I wanted to drop out of school, she was there to tell me stories from her childhood to help me out.”
“In 1982, I was made a justice of the peace for life. I received two or three lectures at Stirling University on my role and this perhaps lasted six hours.”
“Self decisions are the #1 key for success or failure.”
“I'm on death row fighting for my life.”
“You cannot squeak by in life. You have to get totally immersed, make a decision, get into it and get fired up about your life.”
“Big Man upstairs wouldn't put a mountain in front of you if He knew you couldn't climb it. Have Faith.”
“I've given most of my life to serving the people of West Virginia, and it began here 59 years ago, ... six more years, six more years.”
“These are all things we have to work on to continue to maintain and improve our quality of life. Quality of life is our number one issue and we have to constantly work on maintaining and improving it.”
“life of solitude, guilt, anger and remorse.”
“Say it - “I am a champion. I am a champion chooser. I choose to commit to change because I’m willing to pay the price to fulfill my goals and dreams.””
“The first time we met was at the rehearsal. We spoke forever about everything - about life, about what we were doing.”
“It doesn't seem reasonable for them to get life sentences and someone who committed three murders to get the death penalty.”
“I had lived a charmed life, and then I lost a beautiful woman I loved with all my heart.”
“Everyone is selfish. At least we know that.”
“For Matt and Trey, life is still a term paper. They put it under the professor's door at 11:59.”
“You don't have to be a celebrity. Even those of us who live a relatively simple life can make a real difference and improve our elections by saying yes to the Public Campaign Fund on our state income tax forms.”
“People try to be special so they don't feel so insignificant.”
“I don't belive in God but I know there is something out there...”
“His work is a fine example of contemporary West African art depicting traditional ways of life.”
“When things get normal be worried, when things get great be prepared.”
“Persistence is the root habit of a true champion.”
“O Life! thou art a galling load, Along a rough, a weary road, To wretches such as I”
“Everyday choices that can be made by us or someone else can totally change our life story.”
“The goal of the Prime Vendor Program is to expand and ensure access to life-saving medicines and vaccines. Such access is critically important to patients, and we're pleased to partner with Sandoz to make some of their key products available to these patients.”
“The first three weeks were horrible -- making decisions about having to destroy 25 years of our life. There was so much crying going on. ... All these years passed before their eyes with every scoop of the machine.”
“Life has been so unfair to him. He knew what had happened to him was wrong, but you know what? He was still happy because he knew he didn't do it.”
“My life changed completely in 1989 with the fall of the wall,”
“To make a happy fire-side clime To weans and wife, That's the true pathos and sublime Of human life”
“Ancient success wisdom says whatsoever one sows, one reaps. Start to sow new seeds today, and you will own the title deed to
your dream tomorrow.”
“It wasn’t really their fault that the last president left them with life preservers made out of concrete.”
“I think this will live with me for the rest of my life.”
“The Diamond of the Guru has pierced the diamond of my mind, which is now dyed in the deep crimson color of the Name.”
“We do not want to see anything else standing in the way of him going on with his life. I think he has paid a price beyond measurement.”
“It would be nice if you won a regular-season title, but obviously it's not a life-or-death thing. Our No. 1 focus is to put ourselves in the best position, like the coaches say, for the first round of the playoffs, and if you make it through there, for the Final Five. Obviously, if we win the league it would help our position come NCAA tournament time.”
“Based on the fact that she felt she was in a fight for her life, it constitutes attempted murder. It was his actions, with his hands wrapped around her throat and that she couldn't breathe.”
“David has had a full life. He has touched so many lives.”
“He had a tremendous will to keep going. All his life he took incredibly good care of his body. He didn't drink, he didn't smoke. I think that's why he lived with it as long as he did.”
“Every weekend I make life altering plans only to have them foiled by a monday.”
“The consumer still has life. It does temper the overall gain, but we're still going to see the consumer spending this quarter.”
“An obese animal can have a shorter life span (and a) higher incidence of cancer.”
“No one is more than a sum total of his life experiences. Mr. Wilson is the son of a strict disciplinarian who ruled his home with an iron fist as well.”
“He's a great athlete. That's why he's our quarterback. And his pick really brought life to us.”
“For once in her life, everything was falling into place.”
“The judge has no choice but life in prison. He's 14 years old. I'm not sure he understands right now how profound that sentence really will be.”
“We recommend right from the beginning weight loss, maintenance and lean body mass throughout the animal's life.”
“I think the judge has leeway from zero time in prison to life.”
“She looked at him, as one who awakes: The past was a sleep, and her life began”
“I am the doctor who's trying to save your son's life. You're the mother who's letting him die. Clarification- it's a beautiful thing.”
“Everything changed - my life, my priorities, my values,”
“The best is yet to be, The last of life, for which the first was made”
“I count life just a stuff To try the soul's strength on”
“FOR THE LIFE OF ME, I CAN'T IMAGINE why they haven't done it.”
“Even throughout life, 'tis death that makes life live, Gives it whatever the significance”
“Change is not something to fear. It simply means taking a different course.”
“Lo, life again knocked laughing at the door! The world goes on, goes ever, in and through, And out again o' the cloud”
“I now look back fondly at those being the most constructive years for preparing me for life in the real world, ... You have to have pretty thick skin and you have to have big shoulders.”
“the best 15 years of my life.”
“I have never done Chicago in such a blitz in my whole life, ... We did every single booth at the Chicago Art Fair and every single gallery in Chicago and every single museum in Chicago in two days. I could never do that by myself. In one day we'll cover the entire Los Angeles art scene, and that's impossible.”
“That he was dead and then restored to life / By a Nazarene physician of his tribe.”
“The Life, Death, Miracles of Saint Somebody, / Saint Somebody Else, his Miracles, Death and Life, - / With this, one glance at the lettered back of which, / And `Stall!' cried I: a lira made it mine.”
“He's a freak. He has a natural gift to start with, but he's also constantly training. Much of his life revolves around track.”
“What if we still ride on, we two / With life forever old yet new, / Changed not in kind but in degree, / The instant made eternity - / And heaven just prove that I and she / Ride, ride together, for ever ride?”
“O lover of my life, O soldier-saint.”
“I've never seen a team so quick in all my life. Those women have some moves I couldn't have even dreamed of.”
“When I was 4 years old, I got to see that tower being put up, and it's been my life. This was a big tragedy today.”
“Love, we are in God's hand. / How strange now, looks the life he makes us lead. / So free we seem, so fettered fast we are!”
“Whom but a dusk misfeatured messenger, / No other than the angel of this life, / Whose care is lest men see too much at once.”
“I have a father who is a psychologist, so my life has been research.”
“Technology has continued to bring the world closer together and increased the horizons of each individual as never before.”
“You should think so big that it actually scares you into success and out of the land of fear, which is quicksand for your dreams.”
“You don't know anything about the history of journalism, psychology, or my life! ... You can't handle the truth!”
“Other issues include affordable housing. The board has addressed many quality-of-life issues but there are no easy solutions. What drives the economy is tourism. Service folks have to be able to afford to live here.”
“Expect Super Natural Miracles everyday…I do!”
“Learn, Imagine, Feel and Experience - That's LIFE!”
“We're just a couple that are gonna have a baby and we're very excited about it, about this new life.”
“Give someone the opportunity to have their life changed by you setting a championship example.”
“At the beginning of every day ask yourself,“What seed can I plant today in order to predict my future?””
“Giving is an attitude. It is not dependent on the amount of money in your bank account. It’s a heart issue.”
“When you become successful in any type of life, there are people who are not contributing to the motion.”
“If you make the habit of giving a main priority in your life, then you will be blessed beyond all of your goals and dreams that you have ever imagined achieving.”
“We cannot sow a selfish attitude and expect to reap abundance and generosity.”
“Your commitment is the foundation and it's your decisions that will determine whether or not your foundation will crack in the
midst of life's storms.”
“Daily commitment to the achievement of your DREAMS will push you through the trials of life.”
“The more unique experiences you have, the richer your life will be with treasured memories...that will grow you to the Next Level.”
“Take control and authority over your lack of commitment in the past and recommit to yourself to the achievement of your goals and dreams.”
“Genius is an infinite capacity for taking life by the scruff of the neck”
“Without commenting about these negative allegations, no one deserves to have their life ended the way Mrs. Martin's was and her body discarded the way Mrs. Martin's was, by her son.”
“It's in a younger generation, that's the killer about it. It keeps getting the young people... life hasn't even started yet and it's over.”
“No one but you owns the title deed to your life.”
“They deserve to have the best quality of life that's possible and we want to provide that for them.”
“You have to take it in context. You don't use induced coma unless you are really in a truly life-threatening situation.”
“I never spoke one Word to him in my Life; yet I love him so dearly, that 'tis impossible I should live without him”
“It has everything to do with governing. It has nothing to do with private life.”
“Our role is to develop techniques that allow us to provide emergency life-saving procedures to injured patients in an extreme, remote environment without the presence of a physician,”
“There is so much more to life than football, and we just wanted to highlight that, ... Whether it's the death of a sibling or the birth of a baby, it's such a opportunity to see God's hand in it, the bigger picture in life.”
“He was on the track team and I know the way he was running, he was running for his life. I just have reason to believe my son knew he was in danger and that's why he was running the way that he ran.”
“Life change is the bread and butter of the self-storage industry.”
“You and only you can make the decision to rip the chains of your past (your default settings) off your ankles and start walking free from what has been holding you back all these years.”
“The day that I was elected to the United States Senate remains among the most cherished of my life,”
“Lack is more of an acceptance of it in your life than a condition...you accept it, and it shows up...you refuse it...it goes away.”
“This job will change my life,”
“Tyler has pitched in a lot of big ball games in his life as a young kid so he's been in those situations before. Today he was outstanding - Tyler was a bulldog out there.”
“I think it lifts your mood and it's kind of like new life. It makes you happy and that's what your home, your personal place, should do.”
“Live each day as if it's a precious Gift, because it is.”
“I think this song took on a life of its own. It became almost bigger than we are, honestly. We were just the voice behind it.”
“They can see there's a life after Head Start.”
“Caminante, no hay camino,
sino estelas en la mar.”
“We were neighbors; I've known him all of his life - I'm older than he is,”
“The life you are leading is simply a reflection of your thinking.”
“The Fabulous Life . . . ”
“An open mind and an open heart will allow the dream inside of
you to become a reality.”
“It's really an ingenious idea. One of the most desirable things in American life is a job on television. Everybody can understand the appeal of that more so than the appeal of a million dollars. Somebody wins a million bucks on Survivor, that doesn't mean anything to viewers. Here you've got a situation [where] somebody really does have a career launch.”
“It's hard to remember life without eBay. It's one of those things like fast food or Disneyland. Once they make their appearance on the American landscape, they become part of the language.”
“Your dream loves you, but do you love your Dream?”
“From the outside you look at these contestants and think 'get a life,' but within certain subcultures — and we're all in one that looks strange to the outside — if you're a part of that rabid fan community, this is one of the ways you express it and rise to the top of that subculture.”
“(It was) the first time I couldn't perform in my entire life. Took a sabbatical (but) didn't know that it was going to last for over two years,”
“He's grown up all his life playing basketball with these guys. They've been very open in trying to help him and have kind of taken him under their wings.”
“I'm not going to be dancing with the stars at this stage in my life. But I want to dance and bop around, and I did, and I can.”
“THE SURREAL LIFE”
“Three issues dominate the public's concern about the future of children in this country -- drugs, crime and home life breakdown,”
“The show has always been about the shallow moment-by-moment existence of life in the business. But we keep discovering subtleties, like, in Hollywood, even a guy who makes $5 million is constantly insecure and struggling.”
“Don't get cute with me, chief, or we're going to start talking about your personal life,”
“If you want a taste of heaven, you have to let go of everthing”
“I've had spectacular highs in my life ... And I've had terrible lows, but the boss has always been there, and if I keep rowing, I come out the other end.”
“It says the decline the brain experiences late in life is not inevitable. It can be affected by things like habitual exercise.”
“I've had problems all my life, big problems. God's been on my shoulder all of my life and I have no real conviction for why some people have trouble on one shoulder and God on the other and why some people don't, but I'm just one of those people, ... The boss has always been there and if I keep rowing, I come out on the other end.”
“I always thought that her life could go differently, as long as you're on the right side of the dirt that it can happen,”
“We had about eight or nine (deep) plays called Saturday and Kevin's running for his life, ... That's going to happen sometimes.”
“I didn't have much of a life, ... My kids were grown and gone. I was very, very single a loner.”
“Life is one big gift you keep on recieving.”
“For the rest of your life you will have to live with that, and for the rest of my life I'll never forget it because that's the truth. I don't miss anything.”
“He lived a long full life, but had clearly a lot more to do, to enjoy, to experience.”
“If we can get to children while they're young, we can teach them respect for all life.”
“The individual life of a flower is about one week.”
“I would say so. It's part of my life.”
“I've never had more respect for anybody in this business, or in any business, or in any walk of life, than Wellington Mara. To say Wellington Mara is one of a kind, I would endorse that wholeheartedly.”
“Time the most precious gift one can give. Each moment is unique because it will never happen again…the gift of your time spent with others is the ultimate display of unconditional love.”
“Your giving predicts your living.”
“Take charge of your own Y2K life. Once you do your own checking, analyze and create your own contingency plan.”
“These are the moments that form a connection, which in turn becomes a sort of life-preserver for the child as he becomes older.”
“Life is a means of extracting fiction.”
“If life is good, then why is there so much destruction in it?”
“Keep your eyes open to your mercies. The man who forgets to be thankful has fallen asleep in life.”
“"Forever is boundless devotion, particularly near the 12 year end””
“Every second that passes, you will never see again, so make the most of it while its there.”
“We believe Qatar Foundation (QF) is making a big difference to the quality of life in the region.”
“We believe you're either cool early in life or later in life, and it's much better to be cool later in life,”
“How much do the doldrums impair your ability to carry life forward? Can you get to work? Are you doing well at work?”
“Only Mama could have something good come out of this. She used to say with life, you can't just take the good without having the bad--it wouldn't be life.”
“If what they put in their bodies was healthier, than they would have a better life later.”
“I've seen so many period pieces in my life, I really enjoy them so much, a lot of my favorite movies are period pieces.”
“Whatever the PC case or power supply, the XG line extends the life of a PC to give the extreme gamer the ultimate gaming experience, ... Our XG products offer X-treme styling, X-treme cooling and X-treme reliability for the X-treme lifestyle.”
“At first it was hard to let go, but now I expect change. It's part of life.”
“We believe the senate can be more involved in everyday life.”
“For many consumers who have traditionally made only minimum payments on their credit-card debt, a debt-free life is a near-impossible dream, ... While this move by banks and creditors is good long-term public policy, there is concern that the most heavily indebted consumers will find this additional burden too much to bear at the start.”
“I'm very much amazed with her work. We won't be able to grasp the impact her life has had for years to come.”
“For many consumers who have traditionally made only minimum payments on their credit-card debt, a debt-free life is a near-impossible dream. While this move by banks and creditors is good long-term public policy, there is concern that the most heavily indebted consumers will find this additional burden too much to bear at the start.”
“Only a life lived for others is a life worthwhile.”
“Just because you have a disease, it's not over. You can still have a real productive, fun life.”
“His life is changed forever because of this strike.”
“The beauty of life is that hope abounds. Hey, life goes on. Make the best of what you've got.”
“I believe working with clay will be my primary expression. But life is unpredictable. I find that fact exciting.”
“My whole philosophy in life is one step at a time will get you to your destination or to your goal and you don't have to win the race. You just have to be in the race.”
“Trials are medicines which our gracious and wise Physician prescribes because we need them; and he proportions the frequency and weight of them to what the case requires. Let us trust his skill and thank him for his prescription.”
“This most beautiful system [The Universe] could only proceed from the dominion of an intelligent and powerful Being.”
“Something that coach taught us, basketball is important but basketball life and people involved with the sport are more important than the game. And no game can keep you from doing and having the opportunity to pay your respects to someone as great as coach Ray.”
“It was 25 to life, mostly towards gang warfare and shooting police officers so I had to turn him away.”
“It is well enough that people of the nation do not understand our banking and monetary system, for if they did, I believe there would be a revolution before tomorrow morning.”
“Thinking is the hardest work there is, which is probably the reason why so few engage in it.”
“Cancer was 'the battle of my life,' he used to say.”
“Anyone who stops learning is old, whether at twenty or eighty. Anyone who keeps learning stays young. The greatest thing in life is to keep your mind young.”
“Wealth, like happiness, is never attained when sought after directly. It comes as a by-product of providing a useful service.”
“We hear a lot about high anxiety today, but I'm not sure we live in a more stressful world. Life has always been stressful.”
“She keeps at things, I can tell you that. She drives herself and her private life with the same responsibility, the same goals.”
“There is no end to education. It is not that you read a book, pass an examination, and finish with education. The whole of life, from the moment you are born to the moment you die, is a process of learning.”
“I've had a busy life.”
“You have to make sacrifices to be a team player.”
“Don't worry about any problem which is possible for you to solve
Don't worry about any problem which is not possible for you to solve becuase there is no point in worrying . So any problem we need not worry.”
“I've had a busy life.”
“drug use is certainly part of life in the Army.”
“Management is not satisfied where we are today, ... This is not the best day of our life.”
“We must make sure our downtown welcomes people from all walks of life.”
“I guarantee you at one point in your life, you have given up all of your privacy for 10 percent off at a shoe store, or hardware store or to get a credit card for some type of purchase. You have given up your name, your address, your phone number and your Social Security number for 10 percent off.”
“It was exciting. Probably the most exciting thing in my life. It was exciting to say the least.”
“My hope is that one day America will return to our historic standards which were to respect the life of the unborn.”
“Anything we can do to save a life is something we will support.”
“Some folks say that Perception is Reality, but I have always operated under the premise that Reality is Reality. Keep it real!”
“Treasure the gift of life, remember friends and family that reached out to help, remember the strangers whose lives were touched by the events, ... We must learn to go on with our lives as well.”
“I believe all life has value, from conception to natural death. And I believe the intentional taking of human life, except to save lives, should be a capital offense, as it is in most states in America today.”
“Even though the name Monsanto isn't new, the concept of a life sciences industry is, ... We hope to capture the essence of our role in this emerging industry in our new positioning.”
“I can agree with life continuing, because it has, but I cannot agree with getting over it. Getting over it falls into the same category of closure. Not a day passes that I don't see the faces of my friends and seeing them for the last time as we performed our duties that morning. Not a day goes by that I don't think about those unfortunates trapped above the fire and having to make the choice of burning or to leap from a thousand feet in the air ...”
“So many decisions of the Supreme Court have been made in the vacuum as to when life begins ... and it belies the scientific facts, the medical facts, that are out there today,”
“It's sad that that's what teenagers have to do, that they don't have enough of a social life that they have to connect with someone across the country ... who they may never truly know. I mean, they go to school with 1,800 other kids.”
“On life's vast ocean diversely we sail, Reason the card, but passion is the gale”
“When you have $10 million or $12 million, you're used to the finer things in life.”
“the presence of them certainly designates life and to say it otherwise, logically, is schizophrenic.”
“A society that has made ''nostalgia'' a marketable commodity on the cultural exchange quickly repudiates the suggestion that life in the past was in any important way better than life today.”
“You just can't put a dollar figure on something that is your life companion.”
“To those that say holding onto the past is a bad thing. I say this... The past has sparked the fire that blazes the path for the future.”
“I am looking for somebody who is not going to make that mistake again in any other area of life,”
“They will take any life out of your writing.”
“The phrase 'Power corrupts; absolute power corrupts absolutely' only exists to discourage good people from getting in positions where they can positively affect the world”
“Many people go through life with no indication of how to be a parent other than what they saw their own parents doing. If their parents were not effective, it will be hard for them. So I would like to see more opportunities for parents to get training.”
“We're not second-class citizens. We pay taxes. We want the same quality of life that's west of I-35. We're very adamant about that we're going to get it because I'm going to hound you every Thursday and be in front of your face.”
“For the first time in my life, I am truly angry with my local government. Unfortunately my feelings are ones of frustration, hopelessness and feelings that those of us who have lived in the county and made our home here are being abandoned.”
“If a person has a quality of life and an expectation for improving that are both by all evidence, by all consensus negligible, is there a general right to life?”
“This story is about truth, beauty, freedom; but above all things, this story is about love”
“She was actively involved from the first days of the child's life, bathing her, feeding her, caring for her. There had never been any question but that she was another parent,”
“All children are special. But she's really, really special. She's taught us about life and what's important about life. It's a blessing God's given her to us.”
“It is really wonderful that we have so many original objects from Darwin's life — original field notebooks, private correspondence, manuscripts, cartoons that friends drew of him as a boy, the magnifying glass he took with him on the Beagle.”
“It might have saved my son's life.”
“I think a Fashionista is someone who loves style, loves design and loves life.”
“We've talked about the possibility of him coming home injured, handicapped, taking someone's life or not coming home at all,”
“For the first time in my life,”
“Usually as patients get to be about 45 years old, even if they've never worn glasses their whole life, they start having trouble with reading.”
“Norma's conversion gave us hope that the pro-life movement can and will be successful,”
“I am extremely determined to make Gods presence known to all of humanity.”
“It was just a fire. There's no injuries or life loss.”
“You've got to live life, got to keep going. You just have to be aware and keep your eyes open.”
“If I'm going to do something with tennis in my life, I knew that now's the time to do it and you can't wait to be in a good mood.”
“Why is it that we sometimes ask for advice to problems that we already know the answers to?”
“We're going to take a second in someone's life and examine it over a couple of days. This was a tragic accident. ... Is this an accident or is this a crime?”
“The Gorilla has meant so much to the city of Phoenix, and he has taken on a life of his own. The community loves the Gorilla, and we're honored to see him inducted today.”
“Life Flight is only in the business of treating the patient who needs help. There will be a bill associated ? but that comes later in the mail.”
“It's easy [for the doctor] to say something improves your survival or quality of life, but it might be that the amount it improves it is so small you may decide it is not worth doing it.”
“I'm horrified. I know that Charlie had some pretty big disappointments in his life. The world of Hollywood movies and television can be pretty rough for a person.”
“He was a very nice child, family-oriented but he got into this politics and this turned his life around.”
“When (Life Flight) picks up a patient, they have nothing to do with money. When they're called, they pick the person up.”
“She's done nothing wrong. What she does in her private life should be her private life.”
“These efforts not only bring health to the disabled orphans, but confidence towards life too.”
“I'm really, really enjoying myself, I seem to have a lot of purpose in my life. I'm enjoying what I'm doing, you know, and people are liking it. So, it's great, you know.”
“Lust is Love without the vital ingredient: Passion.”
“She was built for crowds. She has never come any closer to life than the dinner table.”
“If we can compress this treatment, they've gotten five weeks of their life back.”
“She's done nothing wrong. What she does in her private life should be her private life. She is an absolute icon; she's beautiful. Every time I have met her she has been really lovely to me.”
“The tragedy of life is not that it ends so soon, but that we wait so long to begin it.”
“It was the third worst day of my life. We sat in a courtroom for 4½ hours, learning what a good boy Linton was. It was cruel.”
“If you have a green light from your spouse and kids, life is going to be much easier.”
“Mr. Burwell wanted to go on with his life. He believes that the government now realizes the small part that he played in El Paso's reporting practices.”
“My son was preparing for this, he told us that people were after his life, but yet he was not prepared to stay off the political platform.”
“This study supports what many of us have been saying for years. I-81, which is the economic life blood of our western region, needs immediate improvement.”
“If it is not worth dying for, than it is probably not worth living for.”
“In no order of things is adolescence the time of the simple life.”
“He's had a passionless life. He meets a woman and she's from Humboldt and she sort of sweeps him away and he ends up in Humboldt and meeting her family.”
“Laughing is a good disguise, it makes me closer to you closer to LIFE.”
“They spend a lot of time resolving turf wars between interest groups. There's not a lot that affects my life.”
“In life, if we have hope in God, it makes us happy. Jesus is all that we need,”
“I don't have a distaste for ambiguity, in fact, ambiguity is what I think life is all about,”
“We must take our Will and place it face to face with Wisdom, this will spawn Understanding, we will then feel and reflect Mercy and Loving Kindness but we must remember to keep this with Severity and Strength, this will bring us into Harmony with True Beauty and give us a sense of Victory. Victory then sends it’s Glory and Splendor which in return gives us a Foundation of Power to ultimately reach our eternal Kingdom”
“You don't break connection with the person, but they just entered a different life space.”
“We must take our Will and place it face to face with Wisdom, this will spawn Understanding, we will then feel and reflect Mercy and Loving Kindness but we must remember to keep this with Severity and Strength, this will bring us into Harmony with True Beauty and give us a sense of Victory. Victory then sends it’s Glory and Splendor which in return gives us a Foundation of Power to ultimately reach our eternal Kingdom”
“We've moved it out of focus of regular life. People see bodies on TV but if they actually saw one [in person] it would be a terrible shock - very weird.”
“Hillary always had a mind of her own, ... Hillary had a passion for life. Hillary's future was very promising. It was almost a sure thing - until May 16, 2004.”
“People who were obese in mid-life were 74 percent more likely to have dementia, while overweight people were 35 percent more likely to have dementia compared to those with normal weight.”
“[Loomis said that Petty was a big reason behind his move:] When you have someone that has influenced your life when you're growing up, they do a lot of things for you and help you in a lot of ways, ... Richard helped learn to deal with people and life a lot more than just what's here in the garage, and that means a lot to me.”
“I think that being that (the contract) is up, it's a good time for me to reprioritize my personal life and get things figured out there,”
“We decided the suburban life wasn't for us. So we moved out here.”
“I probably used the word probably. It's a good time for me to reprioritize my personal life and get things figured out there.”
“Jesus Christ was 100% aware of God the Father. Therefore, awareness is key!”
“I think it's a good time for me to reprioritize my personal life and get things figured out there. In life, for years, I've had racing, God and family. I'm trying to get it God, family then racing.”
“There is, in my view, nothing more important than saving a child's life, and we need to strengthen our advocacy to ensure that the funds are available to meet those goals.”
“In life, everything has its time, ... You'd like to think that something works forever, but it is a performance-driven sport and the bottom line is that you have to perform. If we were to get into the chase and win the championship, I don't see anything changing.”
“I stood against the wind time and time again, but now it's clear to me that it's not the wind that shook the heart of me, but it is I who can barely stand.”
“I was No. 5 my whole life and everyone knew me as that. After I explain the story to them they think it's cool.”
“She wants to prove to herself, her dad and Patrick that she is going to take her life in her hands and not do things so safely. So they fall into bed! But then they slow down and talk about it, and it doesn't go as far as he was hoping it would.”
“It's like nothing matters. If someone stabbed me in the chest I wouldn't flinch, if someone shot me, I wouldn’t even feel it.”
“Each of my artists was affiliated with a gang at one point in their
 life- the Crips, Bloods and BGDs. This record will be the first time
 that members of these groups has come together peacefully and produced
 something really great, ... This project will further
 people's minds- knowing that there are other options than that
 lifestyle- whether it be basketball, rapping, furthering your
 education or becoming a lawyer or doctor.”
“No, we don't. Why, just imagine what life will be like twenty-five years from now.”
“Life to him was the most important. Every day was a new day and we made the most of it.”
“The Sheraton Hotel took very good care of us. I feel like I owe my life to the Sheraton Hotel, I do, ... My airline pulled out on me, but out there, hotels pulled out and abandoned their guests. Hotels all around us... I would much rather have had my airline pull out on me than my hotel.”
“I respect John Sweeney; he has spent his whole life working for working families. But we are in a critical moment in our history for working families. Things are getting worse for them, and time is running out to turn things around. The urgency to rebirth the labor movement is much stronger than my loyalty to individual friendships.”
“I take the most wrenchingly painful moments of my life, brush them off and present them for the amusement of others. Luckily for me, my childhood was torture.”
“The treble parade would have been the most perfect moment of my footballing life, but for the two people standing behind me, clearly already plotting their next move,”
“Making this film has been very similar to being at the festival. It's been an intense, life-changing experience, and once all the washing-up has been done, full of happy memories.”
“This is the first study to show this long-term relation between physical activity and dementia later in life.”
“We look for event films, films that are larger than life.”
“See, what you're meant to do when you have a mid-life crisis is buy a fast car, aren't you? Well, I've always had fast cars. It's not that. It's the fear that you're past your best. It's the fear that the stuff you've done in the past is your best work.”
“Obviously, we're happy with the recommendation for life. I have nothing but the greatest respect for this jury. We could tell there was some anguish there, but they ultimately made the right decision.”
“I feel that I was vindicated and now I can put my life back together,”
“The surest way to get a thing in this life is to be prepared for doing without it, to the exclusion even of hope.”
“I do not feel like I was gypped in my life at all. I actually feel as though I was given a special gift.It made me see my life and my family in a different light.”
“It is harder to achieve a balanced life in the year 2001 than it was in the year 1991, ... Ten years of a very solid economy and good economic growth have also created an economy that is more stressful.”
“If your roots are forgotten then your fruits will rotten.”
“We have averted unquestionably a number of life-threatening situations from occurring. We are dealing daily with a record number of people with no heat.”
“It was really a life changing experience, makes you really appreciate what you've got.”
“My whole conscience I get from my father. The purpose of life I learned from my father is that we always work for those who are less fortunate.”
“They reflect his life - he lives in an upper middle-class neighborhood in Houston.”
“It just makes me want to bounce knowing that there are so many people for Relay for Life.”
“We had people of all backgrounds coming together -- all races, all creeds, all colors, all status in life, ... And coming together there was a kind of quiet dignity and a kind of sense of caring and a feeling of joint responsibility.”
“Death is not the end... But death is our goal of our life...”
“Father Abraham has many sons,i wonder how many it took”
“I would go into life for a year. Go on the bum, so to speak.”
“The guy's a proven hitter his whole life. Ever since he's been playing pro ball, he's been doing damage. Get him healthy and in the lineup and we'll score some runs.”
“In the future we will 'fly' like the ancients”
“Days and nights are the heartbeat of earth, seasons are the breath, the trees are the lungs, and the oceans are the circulatory system.”
“One allegation, one allegation was going to ruin ... his life, ... That was another thing we were looking at.”
“He has played a lot of tennis and seen a lot of different styles in his life. What's nice is he is always able to regain his focus when he loses it.”
“That's going to make life a lot easier. We'll get people back and forth much more smoothly and efficiently.”
“At Boeing, the only way to win a better life for our members is to strike,”
“Coach was the male influence in my life when I grew up, ... He taught me a lot about basketball and about life. That was the type of guy he was.”
“There's so much hate in the team against the American government. Soccer is just one part of life. But could you imagine taking the NBA and the NFL away from Americans for two years? People would be angry.”
“As a federal employee all my life, I am very, very proud of this badge,”
“Last night was the worst night of my life, ... This man up here, well, he was trying to choke this little boy. They whipped him down. Then they threw him over the railing.”
“You don't have to travel far to find the greatest experiences life has to offer.”
“[Having known Sofia for much of his life, Schwartzman had a few insights into how she works on the set.] She's an incredible director, ... One of her strengths is that she talks to each actor differently and works with them specifically. She is like Steve actually in that she's very precise in what she says and she's a great observer and connector of emotions and truths and memories. We have so much personal history and a well of things to reference that we were blessed for her to be able to come up and say 'It's kind of like that' and I know exactly what she's saying and no one else maybe would even understand it. It was helpful.”
“Thirty-five people swam out of their emergency operations centre with life jackets on. We haven't heard from them.”
“Life unrolls like TOILET PAPER. The closer it gets to the end, the faster it goes. LIVE each day as it were your last. Someday it may be.”
“Imagine watching a movie on your life ...are you enjoying your movie? Is it fun? Entertaining? Inspiring? An adventure? Make it fun!”
“How would YOU spend the LAST DAY of your LIFE ...if you knew that TOMORROW will be your Last Day? Someday, it will be. Do it NOW. LIVE daily.”
“Last year, I was just so wild. I didn't have any life. This year, I feel like I have some extension on my fastball and a little life on the end. That's the biggest difference from last year. I just couldn't do that.”
“When I want to learn about a person, I ask him to tell me about his life. Why? ...because a person's life is his message to the world.”
“We keep pushing these guys into situations and opportunities they'd really be in if they were living this life.”
“In my lessons of life, I've never met anyone who has been successful being negative. You need to remain positive and to be able to work with others.”
“These projects are being worked on because, obviously, they impact student life.”
“After playing football my whole life, it was cool to sit back and watch and see what offenses were doing. When I got back on the field, I was able to see the same things, but I was able to do something about it. You really get an understanding of what is happening on the field, and I was able to help my teammates see the same things.”
“Life and Success is the JOURNEY. One day at a time. Not just getting there. In the getting is where the fun is. After you get there. Then...”
“The power of life and death is in the tongue,”
“When a person wants to clean up their life, this is how it's handled. But she has a long way to go.”
“If you can't figure out how make money on your own, you are going to have to work for someone the rest of your life.”
“He has a big problem in his personal life.”
“Right from the beginning of time there were these very very attractive bad guys. It's a life that most of us have never led, so that's what makes it so attractive. The jobs that they have, the world that they occupy, is very alien to us.”
“to talk about the reality of life here and the work that you do here at the university.”
“poetic language is singularly appropriate for recounting the life of the king who is traditionally accepted as the author of the poetic psalms, some of which are included in the narrative.”
“Life is like a twinkie, we all want the fluffy golden outside but it's the cream filling that really matters.”
“The purpose of LIFE is to be HAPPY. And. To LIVE your LIFE in your own way to INSPIRE others to LIVE a LIFE of HAPPINESS.”
“Everyone is our teacher. We can learn from each person on what to do and what not to do – to live our life to the fullest.”
“It is little wonder then that during his short life, even though he was studying overseas to better equip himself to serve the people, he found time to return home to campaign in the general elections of 1989 and 1997.”
“Use plants to bring life.”
“Mike Heider is on track to having a very comfortable life, if he stays on the course that he has set.”
“She was very much a small-town girl. I always knew that she'd be successful and happy in her life because she's generally a happy person, someone who always looks at things in a positive way. She's great with people. I'm not surprised at all that she's back home.”
“That's my other life. If I wasn't a jewelry designer, I'd be a gardener.”
“If we didn't have Sarah, we would stay here and have a condo at the beach. Our life has become all about Sarah.”
“The Ancients had no religion, but instead had what could be described as a deeper knowledge of reality, a science and religion that were both integrally combined into a way of life.”
“I hope whatever he chooses to do in life he works hard at it and then he will be OK.”
“Every time I had a thought, I was praying, I've never prayed so much in my life.”
“How do poems grow? They grow out of your life.”
“There's no regard for human life at all. Our younger generation just has no regard.”
“Whether I have a whole career in Triple-A or not, who knows? It's still a pretty good life, but at this stage, just to get one call-up would be nice.”
“We will all soon realize that we are a society of spirit”
“Trying to describe our deeper sense of self is much like describing a hole. How would you describe the hole itself without describing its surroundings?”
“They have lion's hearts. I think that's going to pay off for them more in life than all the wrestling skills.”
“It means everything, I have worked for this all my life.”
“We enter this world crying; from fear. Let us not leave this world crying; from regret.”
“R.L., in real life was a lot different from how he comes off on the records, where he cusses and yells a lot. I have seen him get like that, but most of the time he was a very quiet, respectful person. He was not really how Fat Possum made him out to be to sell those records.”
“For the last third of life there remains only work. It alone is always stimulating, rejuvenating, exciting and satisfying.”
“A Bullet is a man, from time to time he strays, I compare my life to this, To this I relate. And Im willing to listen to your answers, and im not ashamed to tell you I need you today.”
“has been linked to the gym culture for much of his life.”
“As more people become involved in the life of the church, we will experience stronger parish communities.”
“I have found it to be true that the older I've become the better my life has become.”
“You jot down ideas, memories, whatever, concerning your real life that somehow parallels the character you're playing, and you incorporate that in your scene work.”
“When the time comes, you should be waiting ... it is better to be ready without opportunities than not ready with an opportunity”
“I've got research, I have my own life experience I can apply, and I have my imagination.”
“I am still against any kind of censorship. It's a subject in my life that has been very important.”
“Dr Crane! Your glockenspiel has sprung to life!”
“We thought about just doing a series of songs on Lincoln's life, but that might be kind of boring and there's almost too much ground to cover. With this, we can keep it at April 1865.”
“Nothing wastes more energy than worrying. The longer one carries a problem, the heavier it becomes. Don’t take life too seriously. Live a life full of serenity, not of regrets.”
“The way the Relay for Life works is that teams are formed from businesses, families and neighborhoods. They each raise money in their own independent way. Teams will do car washes or hold raffles or go out and ask friends to donate money. Teams are very innovative.”
“Fear is the ultimate self imposed illusion.”
“Joan organizes our social life, and on weekends I follow her around.”
“She fought for her life in those final moments, I'm sure of it.”
“I left the ending ambiguous, because that is the way life is.”
“Life is changing, a person is changing.”
“I think at this stage in my life I have learned that there are any number of things that men will never know, and can never hope to know, about women.”
“I had achieved the most important things in my life when I married Joan and had the sons. Given the choice between Joan and the boys, and being a writer, I world give up being a writer without a blink.”
“Kim was a wonderful mother. She loved life, her children, her husband. I don't know of an enemy she ever had.”
“To live without an idea of your purpose in life is to remain a child never really coming to terms with why you are here on earth. you may accomplish great things but nothing compares to the great filling of doing the things you were born to do”
“Change is like going through a plate glass window. You'll most likely make it through, but there may be some scarring.”
“I don't imagine I would have chosen to spend the last twenty-six years of my life writing about a character whose values and virtues I disdained.”
“All you can say is, my whole life is in this home.”
“Don 't sweat the small stuff!”
“The new guidance will benefit many thousands of patients, especially those with life-threatening conditions and will provide greater certainty about the provision of important new treatments.”
“Moving forward with this complex means planting a stake in the ground, from which we will advance this potentially life-saving science.”
“I am a bio-hazard unto myself”
“I stand here watching the minutes count the hours.
As the seconds build up the minutes.
I have become a victorious victim, to the day and its diminishing digits.”
“True, we love life, not because we are used to living, but because we are used to loving. There is always some madness in love, but there is also some reason in madness.”
“It is such a great honor. You live in the county your whole life and you have a great dog and they recognize you.”
“They really want to make a better life for themselves.”
“Throughout my life in Hawaii, I've become close friends with many Hawaiians and locals with other South Pacific heritage backgrounds and have heard their ideas, comments and hopes of how they wish to preserve their cultures.”
“[The controversy] almost always is something to say about someone's personal life. Sure, lots of men have affairs, but not everyone has the courage of Martin Luther King.”
“nothing is important is you don't feel yuo are important for your self...”
“nothing is important is you don't feel yuo are important for your self...”
“The true measure is the results. Results are often harsh, but they're never wrong. In your business life (or) personal life, take a look at the results -- do I have everything in that area of my life that I deserve? If you don't, you need to make a change. That's what coaching does. It allows you to recognize the changes you need to make.”
“She's given me a different perspective on life. She gets through despite everything, so it makes me think I can, too.”
“If everything is imperfect in this imperfect world, love is most perfect in its perfect imperfection”
“(The walk-a-thon) is something I've done every year of my life. I just try to help out as much as I can.”
“When you have cleared all of your clutter, you can be of greater service to those around you.”
“Awareness is a key ingredient in success. If you have it, teach it, if you lack it, seek it.”
“Taking two years out of a kid's high school athletic career is a life sentence for an adolescent.”
“MOPS definitely enriched my spiritual life, I called Laurie and she sent everybody into motion praying. ... The support and love is just tremendous.”
“All of us were farmed out to relatives or foster homes. We've had an interesting life individually. We didn't grow up together, with the exception of two brothers who were in the same foster home.”
“She's got that life where you're able to pick your husband and pick your baby time, so good for her.”
“This will mean that they cannot imagine life without consumer-electronics devices.”
“In many ways, it's a more permanent medium than many other mediums. It is in many ways larger than life because of the size of the screen. It's a communal experience, something you're not doing in the privacy of your home. So it's appropriate that feature film be the last into it.”
“It takes a lot out of you. It consumes your life. I'm kind of still in shock about everything.”
“Our rule will ensure that all airline passengers have access to this potentially life-saving device.”
“In a sense, the child in him lived with him the rest of his life. ... For anyone who is writing for children, that is an important thing.”
“I've been around boats all my life, so I decided to get into the boat business. We've had our ups and downs throughout the years, like most businesses.”
“He taught us how to appreciate life and to always work to do better. He was a hard worker and was always willing to pass on information.”
“[Unlike other Lewis biographies,] Jack's Life ... finest man and best Christian I have ever known.”
“Oh, it's great. It's night and day. I've got my life back. I'd be pretty scared to find out where I was without it.”
“In my mind it takes a special kind of courage to risk your life in another country, for your own country. The men and women who came back and spoke out were a special kind of hero.”
“Always look for the silver lining. The sky may be falling, but at least it's not raining.”
“My Life So Far”
“You will never move ahead in your life as long as you keep looking behind”
“We are so accustomed to disguise ourselves to others that in the end we become disguised to ourselves”
“It's a good thing that life is not as serious as it seems to a waiter”
“We had no business giving (Columbus) any life ... it cost us a point. Great teams find a way to keep leads and win especially at this point in the season.”
“It's an exciting new adventure. I'm looking forward to opening a new chapter in my life.”
“It's a common misconception that only love drives the heart. We forget that we have a "heartbeat" and music is the culprit behind it.”
“He lived life to the fullest. It was just a little too short.”
“Happy is the person who finds fault with himself
instead of finding fault with others.”
“Often your utterances and expressions of your face leak out the secrets of your hidden thoughts.”
“Really began realizing how precious life was, how short the clock was, he had not done what he wanted to do. I wish this case was about what a success story we had, but it's not.”
“I couldn't go anywhere unless there was a security guard with me. That spoiled my life. It was like being in captivity. Those days are gone, and I don't ever want to see that happen to me again. Now I can wander around the streets of Los Angeles on my own. I like it that way.”
“[?] Probably the most bittersweet moment of my life right now, ... Has to be one of the best goals I've ever taken in this league. I'm going to be proud of that one for sure. I'll look back on that one on video for years and years, but I am extremely, extremely disappointed with the result.”
“It is probably the most bittersweet moment in my life to be honest. I am proud of this one, but I am extremely disappointed in our result.”
“Was really looking forward to a transplant as a turning point in his life. I'll tell you it was extremely optimistic at the beginning.”
“It's one of the ways employees deal with work-life balance issues.”
“It's one of the ways employees deal with work-life balance issues.”
“We basically gave it another 50 years of life before someone else has to redo it.”
“My son had hockey. My daughter had dance classes. And I made the little ones come along with me. Life doesn't stop because they showed up.”
“She had a very difficult life. Her mother gave her away when she was little, and the man who took her in had sex with her and she had a daughter.”
“It's everything to me. My life is nothing without this place. I just love Jesus!”
“It's one of the ways employees deal with work-life balance issues. Because we're spending so much time at work, that's the only time we have to schedule some of those appointments.”
“It's one of the ways employees deal with work-life balance issues. Because we're spending so much time at work, that's the only time we have to schedule some of those appointments.”
“The redevelopment of this historic campus presents a rare opportunity for Milwaukee, ... We can restore, reuse and breathe new life into the historic buildings and at the same time attract high-quality jobs through development that fosters collaboration with the VA hospital and area universities and colleges.”
“It's important to recognize people's demands from the private side of life.”
“Mistakes are like gifts with no reciepts, once you open it its hard to take them back.”
“As I looked at [the art], I saw how her life developed. One of the themes [of the exhibit] is her art is a commentary on her life.”
“They have made her whole life. She talks about them all the time. They send her care packages, which are probably the first things she had ever received by mail. The whole situation is surreal because I never knew these people existed.”
“These were people that were starting a life together, and here you have a guy who is doing the right thing in being a witness for us, ... I'm not exaggerating -- I could count on one hand the times I slept through the night since this couple was killed.”
“love is when you cant control it. No matter how much your try and tell yourself to stop, your heart wont let you”
“When I found Doc May, he saved my life.”
“When on the running track of life and your having trouble remember i am on the side line cheering you on. and when you need some help i will always break the rules and come carry you.”
“Public education should make people well-rounded - not experts. Expertise comes from following ones dreams.”
“In the final weeks of his life, he was bedridden,”
“But he wasn't an easy man to get to know because he kept his personal life so private.”
“Seventh grade was the worst year of my life. I still haven't forgotten. ... Two girls would make fun of me. They made fun of the way I ran. They made fun of me up at the board. They made fun of me during gym.”
“We thought it was a good result, the dividend was above our forecasts and the acquisition of those life businesses from National Australia Bank makes sense.”
“Nichole has one goal in life, as far as basketball, and that is to help her team win. She has no selfishness about her. Really whatever we emphasize in a game, she really tries to do.”
“This is another major milestone in the life of FCFH's activities. These are the first of approximately 900 new homes being built and we are excited about the progress being made. We are proud participants in a team effort with our partners and the installation.”
“RATHER BEING CAPTURED IN A FRAME WITH SOMEONE, IT'S BETTER TO BE CAPUTRED INSIDE SOMEONE'S HEART.”
“When truth fails, we resort to lies. When the lies fail, we begin to erase those who don’t believe. We are not murderers, we are problem solvers. When people are a problem, we end them. Without them, we are free. This is how America works.”
“I'm having the time of my life, ... We're still having fun. We've got to win.”
“[Andre Braugher took home an Emmy for best actor in a drama series for his role in] Homicide: Life on the Street, ... Chicago Hope.”
“I've never seen that in my life, but that stuff happens in baseball. You learn early on that you're supposed to always follow the ball. I saw it rolling away, and I didn't think he'd get it back in time. Fortunately for us, I was right.”
“The [mariner's] civilian status is deceptive. It doesn't show the life-endangering work they did during that conflict.”
“I wanted to make sure I was a Giant for life.”
“This has been the most amazing experience of my life. I don't think there'll be a moment that matches this ever again. It was just sensational.”
“ Reality is overrated.”
“This is just fantastic, nothing will ever beat this, it's the greatest day of my life.”
“Jonathan and I are close, ... and Bob's been a big part of my life. He always knew the importance of having a good relationship with people. Our paths crossed a lot at various functions we'd both attend, and we became close.”
“I love the game. It basically became my life.”
“This is a dictionary for life. It's not just for looking up words. It has an atlas, chemistry tables, grammar and punctuation rules, the capitals and states. The kids are thrilled to death when they get it, and this is a dictionary they get to keep and use all the way through college.”
“We invite everyone in the community to take part in the Relay for Life. Where else can you have so much fun and support such an important cause?”
“Once you get one it gives everybody a little life. That was big for us to get one before we went in at the end of the period.”
“I think whatever sentence the court gives him today is tantamount to a life sentence.”
“Very scary. That's life and death right there.”
“With traditional means of funding retirement shifting, life settlement offers a new opportunity to seniors seeking to utilize their hard-earned assets. As factors such as rising interest rates and stagnant equity markets continue to affect personal finances, life settlement provides an avenue to support the retirements of our client base.”
“Essentially, this bridge has reached its life expectancy.”
“They came over here for a better life, then his health goes south and he's put on disability, then when their home burns down with six kids -- it's such a string of bad luck. Just when they think they've almost got what they're dreaming about, Boom! It burns to the ground.”
“I'm a smart individual. I've exploited my own advantages. My life isn't the story of a kid being exploited by network TV and photographers. This is the story of a kid with talent who wants to work, and who is smart enough to exploit himself.”
“Our observations, which are extremely serendipitous, support the possibility of life surviving atmospheric passage. Realistically, it doesn't do any more than that, but it's an important question that has to be addressed.”
“If to err is human, We must be superhuman!”
“I don't think that's the problem. I'm in the best shape ever in my life. We had four guys run a five-minute mile. But we have to get used to the energy and the emotion that you have to have to do that.”
“Metal truss bridges were being replaced left and right. They had, according to many engineers, served their useful life.”
“It's the small choices we make over time that define who we are.”
“I have new life now. I'm refreshed. I'm ready to play and I'm excited.”
“I don't want people to think we've put it behind us. Though she had her life taken away, she's still a child to me. And I think a she deserves a party.”
“Not at all, ... I've been a Democrat all my life, and I've been a contributor to candidates of Democratic persuasion -- sometimes Republican -- all my life. I'm a political activist. I consider it a responsibility and, frankly, I consider it a privilege to be a part of it.”
“He's the most intensely competitive person I've ever met in my life. When he walks on the floor, everyone totally understands he knows what he's doing. Viewers will see an intense competition. They'll see that the kids really wanted to be selected. They'll see that it really mattered to the kids. And they'll see that [Knight] really cares about the kids.”
“I have a lot of great memories, but I can't imagine anything more exciting than the life I have now.”
“This man gave up his life for all of us just as if he were in a war on foreign land. He was a soldier and was willing to give up his life in a war for us. He was also a soldier in another way - a civil rights soldier - and he did die for us all.”
“I have other obligations now-the show, my family, my life...though I know that without my sobriety I wouldn't have any of those things.”
“Love is the most perfect manifestation of ambition.”
“In life, if we have hope in God, it makes us happy. Jesus is all that we need.”
“I assure you I'll be in Pocatello the rest of my life, ... I'm never moving again.”
“It was terrible. At that moment you don't know if it's a passing thing or if it's life-threatening.”
“I've never been with someone this long. She is a part of my life. She's had a lot of tragedy in her life, but has kept on going.”
“Of course, that's understandable. Any time a family member is struggling, that's the most important thing in life. And dad's health is getting better, but there's still always a concern. What child isn't concerned with his parents?”
“I think that it would be more true to life, true to the Bible. I wouldn't have a problem with a black man playing Jesus. Being born in that part of the world, he would be more close to being black than white anyway. Although what he did transcended all races.”
“Scooby-Doo! Unmasked offers fans of the cartoon compelling gameplay by bringing to life the established characters, voices and storylines of the series. New costumes and abilities, as well as authentic voice talent, result in a much deeper and exciting experience for the players.”
“Some people take it way too seriously, take it as life or death and it's just not.”
“We?re keeping an eye on what is necessary to maintain the quality of life that makes northwest Arkansas desirable.”
“It's like a real job. It really gives people a perspective of what they're going to do in their life.”
“That play and those performances had a huge impact. It just changed the whole trajectory of my life. When [Jones] kills that woman at the end of the play, this simple-minded man who is gentle with a little mouse, it just spoke to my little girl's heart. I was the last one out of the theater. I was sitting there weeping.”
“The real driver for this discussion is the presence or absence of life on Mars. Like most astronomers, I'd love to believe it's there (or life was at one time) but we probably won't know for sure until humans explore the planet.”
“It will make Chris' life easier, ... It can be frustrating to be double-and-triple-teamed all the time. But teams can't do that now. Jeremy stretches defenses.”
“That's important. I'm a huge San Diego Chargers fan for life. We're building something here.”
“The universe or void is an everlasting ball of chaotic contemplations all trying to reach a level of happiness that is infinitely expanding.”
“It's been a lot of fun. I'm still trying to level things off in life, but I look forward to this week, for sure.”
“That was actually one of the most nerve-wracking moments of my life.”
“As many of you are aware, I had been anxiously awaiting the addition of a new baby to my life. The baby has been born and both mother and child are in good health.”
“She's a huge element of positive life force. (On our team), she's taught people how to act and how to perform on difficult stages and how to carry yourself as a person.”
“Life is Queer although....Smells good & foul as well, Tastes sweet & sour as well, Sounds pleasant & harsh as well, Plays bad & fair as well”
“The governor has not been debating all his life, that's for sure,”
“Life is one fool thing after another whereas love is two fool things after each other.”
“There's no telling how much revenue we'll lose this year. It'll be a rough year but nobody lost their life and we're very fortunate.”
“Tiger's in charge of his own life,”
“If you look at the business historically, it's been really cyclical. There have been these major events in her life when she's been redefined -- the early 70s, the early 80s and the late 90s. The struggle is to keep Barbie relevant to today's girls. I think they are working on that but I think its going to be a while before it pays off.”
“The past exudes legend: one can't make pure clay of time's mud. There is no life that can be recaptured wholly; as it was. Which is to say that all biography is ultimately fiction.”
“This is the decision of your life. You have to take some time to make sure.”
“I'd just like to thank everyone involved. They saved my dog's life. You don't find many police officers or fire departments that are going to go to that much work for a dog.”
“There's more to life than just golf. I'm here for the four years.”
“Sadness is better than Happiness, when you are happy and u got some sadness, u will feel it very bad, but when you are sad and got happiness u will feel it in the best way so be sad to taste what happiness is .”
“We are assured that the president will keep his promise to nominate a strict constructionist, ... undermine respect for life and family.”
“Their products are linked and run across life, employee benefits and unit trusts, and we have integrated the three into a single administration system so they can enhance their customer service.”
“She might not have anything now but the clothes on her back, but she does have her life.”
“Fiction is just the writer's truth's screaming at the page.”
“Obsession is a medicinal poison.”
“This is your life, and it's ending one minute at a time.”
“Life gets in the way of living”
“the best day of my life, hands down.”
“They've been the worst months of my life. I've been wishing my life away by constantly wanting the weeks to go by so Connor could finish his treatment.”
“I just don't understand how it escalated and got this far. She's had a hard life. She grew up in the projects. I guess what she's seen between me and my husband, the verbal and physical abuse, affected her.”
“Right now every night is the biggest game of my life down the stretch.”
“In one phone call, you're whole life changes. We dropped the whole baby thing. Thankfully I was at the point where it hadn't spread to any lymph nodes.”
“I am the author of my life, Unfortunately, I'm writing in pen and i cant erase my mistakes”
“Dreaming my life away, counts for nothing,
But nothing ever is the end,
No, nothing ever is the end.”
“God gave us a reminder of the purpose of life. It's making a difference by helping those in need.”
“after a break-up people always claim that things will get better, and in fact they do... but not because we in fact ARE better but that the pain, has beaten every last ounce of feeling from us. after we are wasted away, because food and drink seems to be like sand being choked down, and sleep is no comfort because you know you'll dream of them, and have to wake with knowing they'll not be there. after all this is accepted, we are what people claim is 'better'”
“If you've got nothing to live for, why are you still here?”
“I swear on my life that is true.”
“The chance of not winning is not an excuse for a failure to start; however, the failure to start is the reason you will never win!”
“Trying to cure the economy by creating new debt is like planting thistle weed seed and hoping for daffodils! No matter how great the intentions, you still get stuck in the end!”
“If love never fails, why is the divorce rate so high? I venture to guess that many people have yet to find out what real love is or they have but fail to let real love do its job!”
“If people spent more time focusing on their own issues, rather than those of others, we could cure the disease of Boredom.”
“Californians invented the concept of life-style. This alone warrants their doom.”
“Coach said life on the road is always a challenge, and it's not always pretty.”
“It takes courage to grow up and become who you really are.”
“When I speak with prospective students, their biggest concerns revolve around life issues, finances and family. Today's education options mitigate some of these very real issues.”
“As the Web enters its second decade as an integral part of everyday life, our expanded categories recognize those who are pushing the Web in new directions,”
“We're ready to go. We're seeing some life in this team we didn't have last year.”
“He led one public life ... but there was a second side, a hidden side to Henry J. Lyons, a side that caused him to be brought here to this seat,”
“If you're 73, skiing should be free. I can attest that there is life after 50.”
“They're gaining real-life work experience. You can read something in a book or listen to someone talk about it; but when you are the one who has to get up in the morning and be at your job, that's where you really learn.”
“Most life insurance companies lack the critical mass to survive long term. The sector is highly fragmented and rife with overcapacity. We do not see how most of the smaller players can effectively compete and remain profitable in this environment.”
“[Their vagabond life returned to some sort of normalcy this week, however, and it showed in their play.] It was lovely, ... We didn't have to jump on buses to go somewhere.”
“The only way I got through this point in my life was by the grace of God. I had done nothing to deserve getting picked up. I could have just been an average guy who once had a shot. But thanks to God, I'm where I am today.”
“My dad started me in wrestling. I have been around (wrestling) my whole life. I was born around Christmas and my dad had me in the wrestling room in mid-January.”
“They left the meeting impressed and pleased with our efforts to strengthen Hillel and Jewish life on campus.”
“I'm very happy that I could give you a new lease on life.”
“You can't go through these types of experiences in life and not be changed by it. If anything, it brought him closer to things he knows and loves.”
“Whatever failures I have known, whatever errors I have committed, whatever follies I have witnessed in private and public life have been the consequence of action without thought.”
“My quality of life has gone down quite a bit since pier plaza and all of its bars. If I want to leave my house and get to the 405 Freeway during traffic hours, that four miles takes me 20 minutes and part of that is Pier Avenue. Traffic is so slow now with two lanes, to go to one lane is dangerous. If we ever have to evacuate this city, we are never going to get out. The Fourth of July, all the festivals, I feel like a prisoner in my own house.”
“It's hard to have a normal life. When do you have time to go to a movie or have a simple dinner party or time to yourself? You're on the road, you're pulling up roots or going incessantly or obsessively to cheer your child on.”
“Many people, including the president, are concerned about destroying life while trying to save it. We're showing a method by which you can create stem cells without destroying the embryo.”
“Just the idea of giving a critically ill person a new chance at life. Every time I think about it I get goose bumps. My son lives on in them.”
“Many people including President Bush are concerned about destroying life to save life. But this is not destroying life because the embryo is fully capable of implanting,”
“I am not sure life was meant to be lived in a managed way...if so, no wonder we have difficulties with things like time management.”
“He saw how it saved my life.”
“Patrick has been singing his whole life. He writes music and plays piano by ear.”
“Malice can be spotted more easily in eyebrows than in opinions”
“In the end we shall have had enough of cynicism and skepticism and humbug and we shall want to live more musically”
“It's what I wanted to do my whole life. The odds are against every kid who wants to make it to the major leagues.”
“Do you know why I envy a man deamed unatractive by society? Because when he finds love, he knows its not just for looks.”
“The opportunities are not there in your working life because you can't take the time off.”
“That's 14 people who've saved my life and my son's life. That was a real gift. ... When you give blood, you give the gift of life.”
“We are partners in learning and life-long educational initiatives,”
“To play someone who actually gave his life for others is something in my mind that's very monumental. There's a little bit of pressure.”
“I've never coached against a team with only three turnovers in one game in my life.”
“There seems to be a whole lot of life at Twin Pines.”
“We have all these wonderful life-saving devices ... air bags, etc., but none of it means anything if you're not secure inside the car itself.”
“Most people involved in the origin of life, including myself, would argue that the most likely 'last common ancestor' was in a high-temperature environment..”
“This is great. I'm so excited. We're home and we're playing Mid-Con teams. Life couldn't be better. Softball is so fast-paced and intimate, and people are going to love this team.”
“You motivate kids to want to read, you motivate them in every other area of life, too. It's a breath of fresh air, and I appreciate seeing a teacher who has some energy and initiative.”
“They've gone to private schools where they've had little contact with minority students and, probably all their life, they haven't been disciplined or punished for these kinds of things.”
“Being pro-life means more than casting a good vote now and then on an abortion-related bill. It also means supporting God's institution of marriage and fighting the homosexual agenda at every level, whether it is in the schools, the workplace or in the hallways of government.”
“She was like a prisoner in her own home. Sometimes, I think about how she lived a terrible life in the end.”
“There are so many things that came to a head in 1968, ... It was the greatest concert of his life and resulted in one of the greatest albums of the century. A month later he proposed to June [Carter]. In the six months previous, he gets himself off drugs, and in the process he finds himself.”
“The ugly and the stupid have the best of it in this world. They can sit at their ease and gape at the play. If they know nothing of victory, they are at least spared the knowledge of defeat.”
“The two of them have a lot in common, and I don't mean life story, ... I mean a kind of core energy.”
“she would like to see this come to a halt so her life can regain its normalcy.”
“Life will throw stones at you, and it's what you do when that happens that counts.”
“I've played basketball my whole life and I'm not going to give up and ruin my life by using steroids.”
“We reenact battles in our area, but we also do living history, enacting daily life at schools and community centers.”
“Since day one, Big Black and I hit it off. Life with him is all-day comedy. I can't wait for everyone to see what we're all about -- the world doesn't know what it's in for.”
“Once on-set hits, their life span is extremely short; one day to seven days,”
“has had her life turned upside down.”
“At times I am Harold, and at other times Maude. I fear I may become romantically involved with myself”
“PEOPLE use the word propaganda towards things they cant comprehend, it is obvious. There are plenty of videos full of it. I wonder if they know what propaganda is or does, though?! Maybe not...well, what you believe in (propaganda) is not designed to fool the critical thinker, but it gives moral cowards an excuse not to think at all. j.z”
“I had a couple of tragedies in my life that were almost like signs. 'This is what you were meant to do', this is what I'm here for.”
“If there is anything I would do differently in my life, it is that I would study business more. I'm trying to teach my daughter Chloe at an early age about investing and money so she's not afraid of it.”
“Students who take physics at A-level enjoy higher salaries in later life and have a much wider variety of career options open to them - yet physics is in decline ... It's a crazy situation and we need to put more resources into good quality careers advice in schools.”
“We are here to thank God for the life of coach John Vaught and to celebrate his extraordinary life. He was a public figure but a private man. He was tough but kind.”
“I'm back to doing everything I used to, loving life as ever.”
“In real life, the most practical advice for leaders is not to treat pawns like pawns, nor princes like princes, but all persons like persons.”
“Let us learn to show our friendship for a man when he is alive and not after he is dead.”
“Their life changes Friday night,”
“We cannot stand here in a free society, proclaiming that we care about human life, and do nothing in the face of this, in my opinion,”
“They have a philosophy to enjoy life. When they reach a certain age and a certain amount of money, they're happy to move over for the next generation.”
“He's a highly-skilled kid. He's been wrestling for more than half his life.”
“Someone somewhere let something go, and this man pays for it with his life. Justice works better for some people than others. He was by no means a saint, but he definitely takes the bullet.”
“It was two of my better years of my life. Coach Stratton was a motivator and recruited some talent you wouldn't believe for a small school.”
“When we were released I was sure I could jump right back into ordinary life and that's what I wanted the most, but I'm afraid no such luck. When I can get through an ordinary day without shaking legs and a pounding heart, I think that will be a sign that I can start to tell my story.”
“Life's turns are somehow an opportunity to get better at something.”
“It's tied to life expectancy. They make it sound as if it's a health measure.”
“You can't eat only raw fruit and vegetables for the rest of your life. I don't think people are going to want to eat like that for long periods of time.”
“I believe God has a plan for you. Your life is a map. Everyone's is different and that's what makes us unique. I don't regret getting cancer. It changed my life.”
“I have been going to him my whole life and I sat in the chair and was going nowhere and didn't want to go to college and asked him if I went to barber college if I could work there. I am glad that he gave me this opportunity and maybe the shop will be able to go another 40 years.”
“You can't only eat raw fruit and vegetables for the rest of your life.”
“Christians aren't really thrilled with 'The Life of Brian' but they don't go and shoot Terry Jones and Monty Python's Flying Circus.”
“Nothing can be taught, everything has to be learned.”
“With real-life foreign policy taking front and center, Gore gets pushed off the front page,”
“We really are trying to make a push toward life-cycle-cost analysis in new construction. In Alaska, the elements are hard on a building. If that isn't taken into consideration when you build the building, then the facility is not going to last.”
“With children, they don't really have that much of a life to reflect back on. Getting a perspective is therefore much more difficult.”
“There's no winner. I think we're all winners because we're blessed. We're filmmakers. What a life.”
“We regret any loss of life that this may have caused because our policy remains to minimize collateral damage.”
“The more I work on his pieces, I find that their fundamental life energy is irresistible, and it increases. It's such marvelous music, with such personality, thought and care and detail. We have a number of very marvelous composers, but to see Elliott at this age so enthusiastic, wanting to do it and being able to do it, is amazing.”
“We really are trying to make a push toward life-cycle-cost analysis in new construction. In Alaska, the elements are hard on a building. If that isn't taken into consideration when you build the building, then the facility is not going to last.”
“I wouldn't write anything autobiographical. If you've lived a life like Laurence of Arabia, it might be a consideration, but otherwise it's a little bit vain, it seems to me.”
“Without identification and a death certificate, there is no life insurance payout or probate.”
“The greatest thing about Chad is football is not the No. 1 thing in his life, and baseball's not the No. 1 thing in my life. If it doesn't work out, you did the best you could and you move on.”
“The best part of marriage, for me, is to know you have a life partner who loves you no matter what. That is such an unreal feeling ... We always say we're so lucky we found each other.”
“Our centers are almost like the emergency room. You're not expected to stay in the ER all your life. You go there, you try to get stable and then you move out to the community where you can live as normal as possible and as safe as possible.”
“I made a big mistake of my life.”
“Everything here is fast-paced and we are used to a slow-paced life.”
“They say when a door closes, a window opens...well, then I like to climb through that window and find out who the heck closed my door and why??”
“It's easy to be an angel if you have wings”
“It was the most emotional moment of my life, no doubt,”
“I function better as an underdog in everything I do in life, with my back against the wall. That's why I hold on to [my] past.”
“It carried me a long ways in life. It really did. It opened up a lot of doors. It got my college paid for. I was then able to take out loans and go to law school, become a lawyer and earn a good living.”
“Find something you love to do and you'll never have to work a day in your life”
“Substantial loss of life would obviously lead to a decline in economic output but we believe fear of infection, leading to drastically altered behavior, would result in the greatest economic damage.”
“When you feel like your life is out of control, an organized, 'take charge' real estate agent may be just what you need to help make the most of your home sale.”
“What could be more pro-life than working for a cure for a loved one?”
“Faith is required of thee, and a sincere life, not loftiness of intellect, nor deepness in the mysteries of God”
“Passion, family, verve for life, living off the land, adultery, 'cause they're all shagging each other.”
“An organized house is an organized life”
“You never want to give a team life - especially a team as good as Dallas. They've got some momentum now, but we've got a chance in the next game to take it away again.”
“You never want to give a team life. We know how good they can be.”
“I am strongly pro-life, and have fought to protect the rights of the unborn my entire career. I will continue to fight for this cause because I value the sanctity of all human life.”
“For young people, life is very visual. There are few things as visual as the twin towers falling.”
“This is a disease no one talks about, ... But it changes your life. I never got to play football; I had to quit baseball because I was too sick; and when I got to college, I missed a quarter of my sophomore year and had to live with a feeding tube for a while.”
“Anybody who thinks I'm taking this fight for a paycheck doesn't know me. My whole life I've been achieving the impossible.”
“Acting is a sense of wonder and magic and mystery for me and when life takes me on a new journey, I simply remember the smile my first ballet recital put on my face and I move forward.”
“Big River. Trent Anthony invited me to Young Life in my eighth-grade year, and I have been involved ever since.”
“It?s special because it brings the whole community together. Everything is coming to life, it?s spring, the flowers are blooming and it?s an exciting time of year.”
“You realize that baseball isn't your life any more. It's part of it, it's not your life. That's one of the biggest changes I've gotten from it.”
“I'm worn out and my body hurts. I've never experienced in my life trying not to fall asleep in a race car. That was interesting. It was fantastic, though. Thanks to Mike Shank and the whole team at Mike Shank Racing, especially Mark Patterson for allowing myself and Justin this opportunity to get in such a great car and to Oswaldo for teaching us so much right away so we could get right after it. It was almost like I had almost driven the car before when I jumped in it; he just taught me so much.”
“There are no names that do not desire fame because we come from God.”
“The guy's probably never put a pair of skates on in his life. He's probably a disgruntled athlete.”
“[King has called Xavier University's decision to sell the station] one of the saddest days of my professional life. ... took the spirit out of me.”
“Everything in life, ... has to have balance.”
“It's one of the most paranoid businesses that I've been in in my life.”
“We help companies with managing their features, defects, issues, tasks and tests as they flow through an agile life cycle.”
“It is a wonderful opportunity for me to share my life, my hopes and my dreams. This year will be my debut playing the guitar. I am prayerfully dedicating this show in memory of my dad, who passed away in April. I miss him terribly, but I know where he is.”
“Everyone has a right to a real life. Everyone has rights.”
“We help companies with managing their features, defects, issues, tasks and tests as they flow through an agile life cycle.”
“This is out of character for Tony. He's led a law-abiding life. We don't know why things happened.”
“Goodbye, city life; Dream Acres, we are here!”
“That's really what drives my life. If it's just cleaning their house, cooking a meal or taking their cat to the vet, somehow I've had a positive impact on their life.”
“Happiness is not the absence of pain. There is no such thing as a pain-free life. In fact emotional pain is a useful life tool that alerts you to a mismatch between your values and your environment”
“The only thing I can't explain is why somebody who was in fear for their life would follow the person who threatened them and not flee, ... That's why I did not call the police soon. It caused me to lessen the significance of this incident.”
“I have so much admiration for people who devote their life to the church, ... I was quite inspired by Clara. I was inspired by her drive to do good, by her willingness to sacrifice herself and her body. How inspired she was inspired me.”
“[Mocking the defense mantra that Nichols was at home] building a life, not a bomb, ... He wasn't building a life, he was building a bomb and he was building an alibi.”
“My life is so filled, so if I accept acting work now, it means I have to let somebody else do the job I want to do, which is raise my children. It's not that I'm retired, I just no longer accept acting work.”
“The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation.”
“Golf is my life. Since moving to Johannesburg I have spent most of my time playing golf and this has helped me to improve mentally and on the course.”
“It's hard to know what to feel. As a kid you dream about Olympics, Olympics, your whole life. Now that we've actually won an Olympic gold medal it's hard to put it into words.”
“The person lives twice who lives the first life well.”
“Life is fairly easy to create, but I think planets like Earth are going to be rare.”
“I don't think my life will change. Maybe I'm being naive. I will try to make it work. Fashion is about having a good factory and good employees, and I can do that here.”
“Life's like a constipated dwarf; short and full of crap.”
“when life hands you a lemon, say, hey, i like lemons, what else ya got?”
“IT AIN'T THE HIGH COST OF LIVIN', IT'S THE COST OF LIVIN' HIGH”
“When reality bites we forget about the dreams.”
“As different streams having different sources all mingle their waters in the sea, so different tendencies various though they appear, crooked or straight, all lead to God.”
“We can show the nation, as Saints fans, our passion for the unique way of life in New Orleans and the Gulf South region.”
“It's a great feeling to have your name mentioned with him, especially. I grew up admiring him my whole life, so as a running back, even to be playing here in Chicago where he played and to see his name all over, obviously to have your name mentioned with him is something special.”
“It's about me figuring out how to do this right, where I can balance having a life also. People are going to hate me (for saying this), but I'm really happy with my life and I'm really happy I'm the winner and I'm really going to try to make something out of it, but am I going to be the next Vera Wang or Ralph Lauren? I don't know.”
“I went three months without picking up a club. It's the worst time of your life and I don't want that again.”
“No matter what was going on in his life, he would find a newspaper and do the crossword puzzle. That was his big thing, doing the crossword.”
“You can see financial gain over the life of the building.”
“It was a way for me to hang on to my identity. For me, during this period of my life, it became a form of retaining my identity.”
“I don't need tightly exploitative. Suggesting that I would use this personal part of my life for a (expletive) movie ... it kind of makes me sick.”
“Garry Shandling always said to me,“Don’t get mad, get funny.” It changed my life.”
“We're like brothers. He's probably the closest friend I've ever made in my life.”
“She hates it. She did it all her life and she had to learn how to sew to survive. She couldn't fathom I want to sew because it is my dream.”
“We probably wouldn't have done anything different in a real-life situation. We kept him in sight and kept matters safe. I think our lines through the corners were about the same as his, he was probably a little quicker getting into the turn as our cars are a bit longer and heavier. The handling is a lot different, but we kept up with him. We chase different cars all the time, I was proud of our officers. We kept up with Earnhardt Jr!”
“If we had a countdown timer on our lives, we wouldn't waste a minute.”
“God who gave us life gave us liberty. Can the liberties of a nation be secure when we have removed a conviction that these liberties are the gift of God?”
“Some things you certainly can't explain. You tell (his players) life is incredibly short and fragile and don't waste it.”
“Life exists in the universe only because the carbon atom possesses certain exceptional properties.”
“The art of life is the art of avoiding pain.”
“Chita Rivera: The Dancer's Life.”
“I'm a success inasmuch that I enjoy my life, which is an enormous blessing and that doesn't depend on commercial success (though I wouldn't be such a fool as to deny that it helps).”
“encourages his players to live a Christian life.”
“This is a life-and-death issue for young American troops and I might add some of those troops are Puerto Rican troops,”
“The art of life is the art of avoiding pain; and he is the best pilot, who steers clearest of the rocks and shoals with which it is beset.”
“Can I just tell you that I am having the ride of my life right now? I wish I could take what I'm feeling right now and put it in the water system, and we would all love each other a whole lot more.”
“The men who defame you,are the ones, to whose charms you are immune.”
“The same prudence which in private life would forbid our paying our own money for unexplained projects, forbids it in the dispensation of the public moneys”
“Mostly, life in east Africa goes on outside the house. Except for storing your things or sleeping ... most east Africans don't spend much time in their house. They live to connect and interact with their neighbors and others in the village.”
“The idea that is not dangerous is not worthy of being called an idea at all.”
“(Parents Matthew and Cyndy) have always encouraged me to pursue every aspect of my life with excellence.”
“That was the best damned game I've ever been to in my whole life,”
“You won’t know the power of the journey until you step up each rung of the ladder toward what you want. Then, even if you get to the top and find this dream is no longer desirable, you will be viewing life from a higher vantage point and you will have grown in you’re ability to chase your dreams.”
“This life at best is but an inn, And we the passengers”
“I hope people will see the spirituality and the meaning of life, death, light and shadow. It's my art -- it's my life.”
“What I mean by that is that the point of life, as I see it, is not to write books or scale mountains or sail oceans, but to achieve happiness, and preferably an unselfish happiness.”
“It's not life insurance; it's wage replacement. It's trying to make the injured worker - or their family, in the case of deceased worker - maintain their lifestyle, their level of income.”
“At middle age, a guy might feel his life is stagnant, with too much predictability, stability and certainty. At 25, however, a common feeling is that there's too much unpredictability, instability and uncertainty,”
“I would never discourage anyone from doing what it is in life that they want to do. But I would encourage them to find out the pros and cons of anything they become involved in.”
“the awareness of time passing and where you go and what happens in life in 20 years.”
“Dragon's Lair, for some reason, still commands shelf-life. If you go into a store, they will have Dragon's Lair somewhere in the store. And for 18 years this has been going on. So let's say that must mean there's an audience that wants to see it.”
“Focus on what the important people in your life care about. Otherwise you are just slacking off.”
“I love to cycling and think about god ;not be in church and think about my bicycle.”
“I was always working out, ... I don't believe Ted Williams ever lifted a weight in his life. But I was small, and I knew I had to get bigger.”
“It’s hard to believe that the same God who created butterflies, created dung beetles. Maybe there are multiple Gods after all.”
“I tell the players, 'I'm sorry that you got hurt, but there's not a thing I can do about it'. You've got to go forward. That's the only thing I know. That's what I've tried to convey to our players. We've been fortunate here. Our organization for 18 years had very few injuries when John [Stockton] and Karl [Malone] were here ... I understood all along we were fortunate our guys stayed healthy. That's life in the NBA. If you don't like it, there's other jobs.”
“The man who views the world at fifty the same as he did at twenty has wasted thirty years of his life.”
“You can't insult the ignorant.”
“In spite of education, stupidity still reigns supreme.”
“A person lacking in enthusiasm is miserable,lives an insignificant life and goes into oblivion ultimately. ”
“Immigrants do make contributions. Everyday life in the U.S. has a piece of immigrants.”
“When you can't tell the difference between yesterday and today, you know for sure you're stuck in a moment that you can't leave behind.”
“Pain is a part of life, suffering is optional”
“The leader sacrifices his life for the well being of his people.”
“I am One but a billion other beautiful fluttering butterflies, each as lovely as the last or the next, each erasing the image of the prior from a man's mind's eye.”
“Few tragedies can be more extensive than the stunting of life, few injustices deeper than the denial of an opportunity to strive or even to hope, by a limit imposed from without, but falsely identified as lying within.”
“These are claims accepted where it has been determined that a worker took his or her own life due to pain or other complications arising from a previous work-related injury.”
“I don't like when people live their life like a text book. 'This is what you're supposed to do, this is what's right.' Do what you believe in, not what someone else tells you to.”
“Being Normal is over rated”
“Clear as mud!”
“Don't send a boy to do a man's job”
“Life can be great, and can be hell also, its all in the hands who are around you, so know the people before you friendship them!.”
“Any loss of life is regrettable, but we will simply not tolerate acts of violence against our multinational forces or innocent Haitians,”
“Topping drastically shortens the life of a tree. Topped trees are an eyesore in the landscape and continue to be an eyesore as trees slowly decline.”
“From childhood on I have had the dream of life lived as a sacrament. . . . The dream implied taking life ritually as something holy.”
“We're really happy with what we've got over here. You have to give up years of your life if you want to break America.”
“It is a recession when your neighbor has lost his job. It is a depression when you have lost yours”
“I came out, never having played hockey in my life, and just worked. Now it's my favorite thing.”
“Do not let others determine your value”
“Anything that makes the sleep wake interface more distinct will work as a cure for the subjective insomniac”
“I made the decision [to retire] because there were some things about life I wanted to explore outside of football, ... ..... I'm very regretful that people were hurt in the process of me doing that. ..... I offer an apology to all of the people who were negatively hurt by my decision.”
“We talk about life, we talk about our philosophies. He always sends me books. It's a different kind of relationship.”
“The way I live my life, if I have a place to stay and I have food on the table, then I'm not broke.”
“Sleep disordered breathing is a continuum whose disorders range from snoring to upper airways resistance syndrome to obstructive sleep apnea. Treatment of sleep related breathing disorders is not successful until one no longer snores.”
“Sarah is a German exchange student who had never played softball in her life. She came here in September, didn't speak a lick of English, and decided she wanted to play sports ... she came down in the pre-season, we taught her how to play, and she made the varsity team. She makes play after play, and she's doing a great job. She's learning how to hit, and she's a highlight of this season. The girls have really befriended her, and she's taught them a lot.”
“I have never understood the concept of over achievement”
“The most important thing for a young man is to establish credit - a reputation and character.”
“I've had a lot of clouds in my life since I got into pro football -- too many -- but now I feel like I can see really clearly for the first time. And I can see the Super Bowl from here.”
“He talked to me, and it stuck with me the rest of my life. He said, 'I know you got the ability to play in the NFL. But don't come back and say the reason you didn't make it was because you were black.' That's the way he sent me out there in life.”
“This holiday weekend is a great chance for families to see first-hand what life for the Corps of Discovery was like on the Pacific Coast.”
“There are many things in life which I don't understand, but I put this at the top of the list. I just have to trust in God that he has a plan that's much greater than any that I can imagine and that he felt it was appropriate for this event to occur. That's the only way that I can rationally embrace it and somehow, somehow, try to accept it, which I think will never be true.”
“Whatever you get out of life is a direct result of one of two factors-action or inaction.”
“It's more of just a learning experience -- learning what the Major League life is all about. I see the guys workout hard every day and it just motivates me to workout harder, too. Being here is just, a good way to put it is, this is where I want to be. This is the life I want. This is what I want to do.”
“It?s a threat to life as we know it.”
“When he first came here, he looked like a kid who had given up on life. There was some resentment. The first three years, he still wasn't sure that he had a home.”
“We got as many people as we could to come down. We recognized the fact that he gave his life just like the guys in Iraq are doing now.”
“This guy's not a sexual predator. He has lived a very productive life. He's a family man, has three adult children.”
“Life happens too fast for you ever to think about it. If you could just persuade people of this, but they insist on amassing information.”
“It was through these adventures that we laughed, learned about life, and loved the playfulness of their every interaction.”
“Life is my college. May I graduate well, and earn some honors!”
“Happiness isn't gained by achieving, its gained by believing”
“You have lots of people close together, in shelters, all from different homes and walks of life — they will be stressed. And their resistance to any sort of disease will be less.”
“We decided to pray for something we could do to make their life easier,”
“I'm of the mind that life is a risk, every time you leave your house it's a risk, and I see no reason to go through life with my hands tied behind my back for any reason. I'd be foolish to let something stop me from doing what I love to do.”
“A complete life may be one ending in so full an identification with the oneself that there is no self left to die”
“My dad sacrificed many things in life for me. He abandoned a very promising and lucrative career of an army officer just so that he could continue helping me with my chess and accompanying me to tournaments.”
“I have a higher mission in life. Maybe when you get to a certain age, you say, 'Why not?' I'm not going to take it with me. I might as well use it to bless life's people.”
“Free thinking is to have the courage to say no to something everybody says yes to.”
“People are the sender and you're the receiver, so only you can empower or discourage what they said.”
“In order to gain great Power one must have the Courage and Wisdom to obtain it.”
“Perception is Reality and Reality is Perception”
“The world is moving so fast now-a-days that the man who says it can't be done is generally interrupted by someone doing it.”
“Your inner life has to be rich enough that it's going to translate onto celluloid without you having to do anything. That's my favorite kind of acting, and that's also the hardest to do. And it's also the most underappreciated.”
“If you suffer, thank God - it is a sure sign you are alive”
“I would rather he able to appreciate things I can not have than to have things I am not able to appreciate”
“Even the most piddling life is of momentous consequence to its owner.”
“A great man is someone who has made the effort to give great deal of value to the lives of others.”
“There are two things one must never do,even if one thinks there is progress elsewhere.Never leave the country you love the most ,never stay away from the people who love you the most.”
“These people have some sense in their minds of the steps they're going to take in life. Somewhere, they're programming.”
“(Remember that) business is business and your personal life is your personal life and the two can't mix.”
“To succeed in life in today's world, you must have the will and tenacity to finish the job.”
“It is never too late to seek a better world”
“Love yourself first and everything falls into line”
“The crazier in the Bed, The crazier in the Head.”
“You are who you surround yourself with. if you want to be successful...don't hang out in the unemployment line. go chase your dreams and be around people that want to see you achieve. everyone wants to hear a success story, NOBODY likes to hear failure, no matter how much icing they try to cover it with.”
“if you fail to plan, you plan to fail. remember... what can go wrong, usually will find a way to go wrong. So always have a back up for yer back up so ya get caught off guard.”
“Love is being hurt but forgiving, staying by their side when there is nothing left to stand for, love is knowing no matter what is said next they will make you smile.”
“SOAP and XML have often been characterized as HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) for silicon-based life forms. An HTML that is readable by software.”
“Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live forever.”
“SOAP and XML have often been characterized as HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) for silicon-based life forms. An HTML that is readable by software,”
“There is so much joy and life in Ellen's art. I knew we would be happy with the painting.”
“Humankind has not woven the web of life. We are but one thread within it. Whatever we do to the web, we do to ourselves. All things are bound together. All things connect.”
“It was one of the most exciting, perfect evenings of my life,”
“He spent his entire adult life trying to understand how the economy is organized, and he's not going to stop now.”
“If you make it a mission of yours to acquire lots attractive female friends that you will keep as just friends, you are setting yourself up for alot of long term success”
“When a girl asks 'what do you do for a living?’ she is actually asking us who we believe we are. Make sure you have a damn good answer to this question”
“Its very easy to settle for a life of mediocrity. What makes you a man is when you make the hard choice to live a life of greatness”
“Choose from this day forward who you are”
“In truth there as as many religions as there are individuals.”
“It gave me discipline, it gave me passion for having the rest of my life.”
“A man cannot lay down the right of resisting them that assault him by force, to take away his life.”
“Kind words are short and easy to speak, but their echoes are truly endless”
“I hope I'm not the same artist I was five years ago, because it would be impossible. Life -- where it takes you, what you see, what you read -- changes you. Definitely, when I began to create for this album, the one thing I wanted was to not even attempt to do what I had already done. That's why I played with many genres I hadn't visited before, and I made them mine.”
“The words that matter most in my life now is when people tell me that I remind them of my brother,”
“To Ever Get a Life...You First Must LIVE Through One”
“He saw the boat and immediately shut down the dam. He tried to throw him a life preserver, but the guy didn't catch it.”
“What he's doing is completely changing my life.”
“Middle -age is the time of life, that a man first notices - in his wife.”
“The principals of life become the tools we use...are your tools tempered for life?”
“I was very conscious that you don't get many opportunities in life and we had an opportunity,”
“Which is so from real life. When I came here, I was just like: 'What do you mean? I have to do WHAT with these other girls? That's weird.' I was an only child. I didn't get it at all.”
“As long as they keep the important themes -- a job, work, a boss going through a mid-life crisis, trying to make a difference, being stuck somewhere you do not necessarily want to be.”
“There are things each of you can take from her life. ... She was the embodiment of everything that was best in this world.”
“That'll be my only view for the rest of my life.”
“I’m grateful this ordeal is over, and I’m so looking forward to getting back to the job I love,”
“I know we've been able to do things that have given them tickets to become very successful in life.”
“Rome is the one great spiritual organization which is able to resist and must, as a matter of life and death, the progress of science and modern civilization”
“That was the very lowest point in my life. I just couldn't stop crying. ... My dad got his dentures when he was 60, and here I was half his age.”
“This is the biggest athletic opportunity I've had in my life. Friday will be stressful, and so will Saturday [and maybe Sunday] until the phone rings.”
“You can't live your life being upset about things, but it's a lot easier to not be upset about it if you've got enough money yourself. If you're walking around broke and working a job from nine to five or seven to five, and you're really struggling to make ends meet, you start thinking about people who have ripped you off and getting pretty angry at them.”
“It's been a long ordeal and we are looking forward to starting this trial.”
“Handshakes, hugs, and kisses are fleeting. It is true love that will last a lifetime.”
“She stole his life. She stole his hope of anyone else saving his life. That's murder.”
“The end of life is to be like God, and the soul following God will be like Him.”
“Because the man’s priority is his mission, he will always gravitate to a woman whom he feels will most support his mission.”
“That's where we believe the records of life will be read.”
“She was in fear for her life, ... She had been told many times by Rafael that if she left him that harm would be done to her sister in Guatemala, or once she got to the United States that her mother would be harmed.”
“People have to understand the ocean needs more attention, not only when there's a crisis, but in everyday life,”
“Walk a mile in my shoes, and you'll know I have really small feet.”
“It was a big part of his life, ... He opened the school [as facilities director] in 1965. He would get there at 6 a.m.”
“These are some of the best people I've been around in my life.”
“The year 1984 was one of the great years in my life being the year I married Jeanne.”
“Some people are going to be happy with my decision, some people aren't, ... But I must live my life.”
“She was in fear for her life, ... She had been told many times if she left him, harm would come to (her relatives).”
“She started out with the way Nellie started her life. Missouri is where she grew up. She had a hard childhood and upbringing that we didn't realize. Nellie had a fascinating life.”
“Until this time in my life Julius Baker was one of the most admired names in the flute world.”
“He's a thinker in all accounts. He's a guy that's made solid decisions in his life, and he has a great future, whether it's basketball or otherwise.”
“I don't think you deserve life, because you didn't set out to do what was done, ... But you made a series of bad of choices starting out with posing as a police officer.”
“Trying to carry the world on your shoulders is like trying to walk with blisters on your feet.”
“if you're not prepared to be wrong, you'll never come up with anything original.”
“'What do you think of it, Moon, As you go? Is life much or no?' 'O, I think of it, often think of it As a show God ought surely to shut up soon, As I go”
“The title grabbed me because I think life is the ultimate adventure. It?s a great attitude to have toward life - that it is an adventure, that you tackle things and have challenges and foes to overcome and goals to accomplish.”
“We've begun to blend work into life a lot because of technology. Some people have an addiction. It becomes a matter of importance to be on the Blackberry all the time.”
“We live in explosions.”
“My heart felt a lot better and I didn't lose any years off my life (Tuesday). Josh came up big for us when we needed him to and Tyler (Sullivan) made many big saves for us.”
“He just did not wish to spend all his life in a jail in Colorado. He wanted better jail conditions.”
“Far more enchanting to testify one’s life in exasperation; then die in relief”
“I was amazed at what [God] showed me. I prayed that I would devote my life to it.”
“These are the people she spent her life with. These are the people she confided in.”
“One day one thing could happen and your whole life is totally different, the next day, this has totally changed my life.”
“In my life I've burned over 1,000 acres and never had a fire get away and cause any problem. It's an extremely controlled art. When folks see it for the first time they're amazed at how safe and secure a process it is.”
“(That) is comforting to me. Outside of seven months in his life, (Bodkins) has been an ideal person in the community. This is a case where drugs destroyed his life.”
“The affairs of life embrace a multitude of interests, and he who reasons in any one of them, without consulting the rest, is a visionary unsuited to control the business of the world”
“I'm ecstatic. Having devoted a year of my life to this, I feel vindicated. I think that my mother is hopefully ? God willing ? resting a bit more in peace today, and the other family members, too.”
“Whoever discovers a cure for estrogen poisoning will earn a fortune, as well as the gratitude of half the people in the world.”
“The hardest thing in life to understand is why someone wwouldn't do what you would do in the same situation”
“Be not afraid of life. Believe that life IS worth living and your belief will help create the fact.”
“They just want to show that I'm normal, but I don't have a normal life.”
“The whole pool issue is taking on a life of its own. We know it needs to be done, but it is getting more expensive rather than less expensive.”
“Life is like an apple. You gradually take bites and eventually, you get to the core.”
“Life is all about stewardship. It all belongs to God - he just loans it to us for a short period of time. The first command God gave to man was to take care of the Earth, which includes managing and protecting the environment.”
“One always speaks badly when one has nothing to say”
“Life is really simple, but we insist on making it complicated.”
“The things that are truly funny were never really intended to be funny at all.”
“From the forwards to the defenders to the goalie, everybody is committed to making life difficult for the opposing players.”
“We knew we had new life.”
“There's a lot more to life than video games, studying and sleeping.”
“Escape however high, redeems not life.”
“Too many people are thinking of security instead of opportunity. They seem more afraid of life than death.”
“Whatever you don't say out of your mouth,
hurts your heart.”
“In a cruel and evil world, being cynical can allow you to get some entertainment out of it”
“Too many people are thinking of security instead of opportunity; they seem more afraid of life than of death.”
“We get these moments in real life, walking down the sidewalk, going to a movie, where you can actually pull out select data information that otherwise in an analog world wouldn't be available to you. You might have a (global positioning system) built into your pair of glasses, say, so it looks like you're just looking through glasses but you're actually getting a data feed. And there will be different levels of filtering that you can select.”
“For every cruel deed done to others only the innocent remain strong.”
“By defending death, you may add some years to your life;
by trusting and loving, you will add some life to your years!”
“Statues and pictures and verse may be grand, But they are not the Life for which they stand.”
“There is of course, never any point in crying over spilt milk - the key is to learn from failures and then to keep going.”
“We will see, how very important it is to bring about, in the human mind, the radical revolution. The crisis is a crisis in consciousness. A crisis that cannot, anymore, accept the old norms, the old patterns, the ancient traditions. And, considering what the world is now, with all the misery, conflict, destructive brutality, aggression, and so on... Man is still as he was. Is still brutal, violent, aggressive, acquisitive, competitive, And, he's built a society along these lines.”
“People who bounce back say, 'Well, that's the way life is. I'll just dig in and do it over again and maybe even do it better this time.”
“That was the best moment of my life.”
“I enjoy everything about life right now -- everything. I'm just really happy. I'm able to enjoy everything. I'm not depressed all the time and I'm not worried about anything, about myself or my appearance or things like that. Now I just feel so much more comfortable in my skin because I feel like I'm able to really tell everybody who I am and where I'm coming from and why I am the way I am. I'm just a different person today than I was even four years ago.”
“There are ghosts that will follow you your whole life. I think I've met a few of those ghosts head-on.”
“It seems people are dressing down in all areas of life, and the rules in the workplace are accommodating that.”
“I guess that my life has been a series of flukes in the record business. The first thing I ever did was the biggest record that I'll ever have.”
“Everyone, including the Americans, helped a lot. But we just want to get back and restore our old life.”
“I've never heard of this being done in my entire life.”
“It was the coolest live experience I'd ever had in my life,”
“It will take time for us to become a market leader in life insurance, as it is a long-term business. It would take about five to 10 years for us to be ranked in the top five in the industry. However, following our success in other countries, we believe that it's a realistic target.”
“I laugh because I must not cry. That is all. That is all.”
“Life is like Man, Happily he laughs today, But lies in clay tomorrow”
“I've always worked all my life and now I need a hand, not a handout. That's why I'm here.”
“She powerfully combines a real-life understanding of the issues that face Iowans with a long record of experience in the legislative and executive branches. And make no mistake, as a Democrat who has won election four times in the last 15 years - including legislative victories in a tough district and two strong statewide victories as the first woman elected to her office - Patty knows how to speak to all Iowans, from all walks of life and all parts of the state.”
“Who knows if life is better than death or if death is better than life? We all know that love is better than both of them! When you find love you will find a warm and welcoming home to begin your new life with the one you love! So live love and die at your own pace!”
“He that has led a wicked life, is afraid of his own memory”
“A happy woman is one who has no cares at all; a cheerful woman is one show has cares but doesn't let them get her down.”
“What if we do go to some other planet, discover it has life, and then not be able to get the baby snakes, or whatever they are, deathworms probably, out of the capsule, and then rather than sacrificing themselves and not coming back, the astronauts bring back the ultimate in irritating apartment pests. In 2106, people will be complaining about having deathworms in their bread.”
“They didn't get dignity in life. They might as well get dignity in death.”
“It seems on its face to have some real possibilities for improving the quality of life in the city and a more convenient transportation option.”
“I've worked in restaurants my whole life. It's hard work, but I've always loved it. I don't know if I could work in any other business.”
“The simple beauty of August's words struck me profoundly. The lines just seemed to have a life of their own leading me along as I read it.”
“He was very active in a lot of education and religious and political activities all his life.”
“If you have an aging bunker, you might be able to get a few more years of useful life out of it.”
“I've talked to people in all walks of life, from elected officials ... to the guy who repaired my shoes.”
“That's life. I told the guys if it doesn't kill you, it will make you stronger. The kids have dealt with a lot of loss on and off the field and I think they're stronger for it. ... This is one of the best I've coached.”
“When we know what God is, we shall be gods ourselves”
“Those only who are ready and prepared in this life for Christ, shall enjoy eternal and immediate communion with Christ.”
“People relate to this whole larger issue, that this whole way of life is in trouble now. Obviously these issues are happening in small towns all over, including Vermont.”
“Seventy-six? Seventy-six was the longest 17 years of my life,”
“Being a member of the YMCA offers benefits that last you all your life. There's also the social thing, as well. I've made a lot of friends over the years.”
“It looks like snow. They were ready to come down. It was the end of the life for the flowers, and they were going to fall anyway.”
“I don't know if we'd be at 30 percent (S.C. residents as students) without the Palmetto and LIFE scholarships.”
“There are many people like us, who come here to work, to try to give our children a better life than we've had. We work, we follow the laws, we stay out of trouble. There are citizens who break more laws than we do. All we want is a chance.”
“I intend to move swiftly, ... I've spent enough of my life and time on NTP and RIM.”
“I intend to move swiftly in this, ... I've spent enough of my life and time on NTP and RIM.”
“Has fear ever held a man back from anything he really wanted?”
“To truly laugh, you must be able to take your pain, and play with it!”
“Life doesn't get much better than this.”
“This permeates life, ... I find it important in dealing with children, dealing with spouses, dealing with neighbors, dealing with customers.”
“It was just a fantastic job offensively. The girls' bats really came to life today.”
“I want people to remember me as someone whose life has been helpful to humanity.”
“Failure is unimportant. It takes courage to make a fool of yourself.”
“I can live without money, but I cannot live without love.”
“My first novel took 12 years to complete because life got in my way.”
“Y?all are gonna dog me the rest of my life. I just want to win.”
“Inside the mind of the people that invented Heaven, I tell myself, there must have been a lot of hope... In theirs that perpetually invent hells, a lot of fear, despair, ferocity, hate, but also... the will of liberation and self-determination.”
“When you hurt a loved one's feelings, place yourself for an instant in the space curve they fill in now, but that may well be empty tomorrow, and take a good look at yourself!”
“You don't have to cling to nothing and nobody actually. Life has oceans of pain and islands of happiness you can at any time slip away from...”
“My dad is a very strong figure in my life and certainly in death he's become even more meaningful. So there's still a lot of things going on in me that pertain to him and my relationship with him,”
“Vanity would be the attempts at a higher tier. The simple steps of my soul will carry me in a heartbeat to a nicer residence than that of ministers, of presidents or kings and queens, by a simple test of imagination. I am thinking: should I go in...?! And if I get in, should I keep that object that speaks of the past?!... A photo of the loved ones... I was a child embracing the first page of the book of happiness – the warm hands of my parents.”
“Sinatra was the biggest influence on my life, my singing career. And rightly so. I mean he was the best singer ever.”
“We went from normal life back to caveman days in a matter of hours,”
“A Year in the Life of William Shakespeare: 1599”
“A shroud lies ahead and behind many truths. Reality is (sometimes) a glass wall no ray of light reaches.”
“I've never seen anything like this in all my life.”
“What a chase of spins this thought with two hearts holding hands through us on the moonlit evenings and the mornings when city and sea take shape from the dark while the nightingale sings...”
“I'm not familiar with a sky for the wings that seem to fly sometimes the whole flight within themselves.”
“The measure of a nation's commitment to the sanctity of life is reflected in its laws and to the extent those laws honor and defend its most vulnerable citizens.”
“Earthquakes may be inevitable, but catastrophic losses in life and property can be avoided if we use science and technology to help communities prepare, ... This legislation represents a sensible, long-term investment that will pay for itself many times over in saved lives and reduced property losses.”
“Now I'm having the time of my life being on the road with one of the world's all-time great big bands, and performing with symphonies. I wouldn't trade it for anything.”
“I don't make plans. All my life, one artistic impulse has simply led me to another.”
“peaceful life is returning.”
“Corporate criminals will do real time. Real long time, ... It goes a long way to protect the life savings of many Americans by making the price of theft too high.”
“(They've) helped to ease the uncertainties and concerns of families by providing information support, quality of life programs and assistance in personal matters.”
“When you come back, you have a new perspective on life. I now really appreciate heated buildings.”
“Tag is my outlet. In everyday life you usually don't have a chance to say what's on your mind, or you see something happen, and you can do exactly what you want to do. I get to do whatever I want. I can explore any character and go wherever my mood takes me.”
“Sometimes a crisis situation makes your mind feel like the grey fuzzy no reception display on television.”
“Insurance stocks are way up -- Protective Life ( PL : Research , Estimates ) not so much. It's had kind of a mediocre year in a stock performance. And I think that is one of the better values left. Among other things they are strong in prepaid dental insurance.”
“It was a volunteer position and that was her whole life, it would take someone who had that time to commit (to replace her), or it would take a lot of different people getting together who have little bits of time that could work together, because it was done so hugely. That made me think that it's important for people to step up and try to do what they can do for Variety to continue that, and to bring it into focus so the contributions continue to keep coming in.”
“When we shed our earthly skin and when our real life begins, there will be no shame .... Just the love that we have made before time.”
“Unfortunately Mr. Burke lost his life in this crash and others were injured. I am satisfied that the officer's driving fell well within the limits prescribed by the criminal law.”
“Life is painful, nasty and short . . . in my case it has only been painful and nasty.”
“I've never said 'why me?'. That's life. I try to keep a positive attitude. If you start feeling sorry for yourself, that's when it gets bad.”
“Common sense is for people who lack imagination.”
“The life and works of William Owens are worthy of accolades and celebration,”
“We are adhering to life now with our last muscle - the heart.”
“I tried out in college for the singing group and the director said 'You'll do anything in life but sing, Chris.' ... So this is pretty cool. I never felt like a great singer, but if God could use this voice to lead people to worship God, then I'm grateful for that.”
“My life is a lot better because of what they've done to translate the old system of funding to the new one. It is a lot better, but I'm always going to be asking for more just because there are many more avenues to be putting this money into for sure.”
“If anyone asks me what I do, I’d say - I police ads for crimes committed by misplaced letters and mis-spelt words, I enforce the law of grammar and see that writers adhere to it, I am a Creative Supervisor.”
“Make exercise a regular part of your life, something that you don't discontinue because of weather.”
“I think my perception of my own life is different and the fact that Lauren and myself are together. I've never felt this free or happy and so that permeates onto my onstage persona and to my working environment.”
“There's no better reason to be miserable than the reason of love.”
“And really, it's my home life that my own personal foundation is based on and not necessarily the life within the band.”
“It's those older years that are so worth fighting for, ... The best time of your life can be in your 70s, 80s and 90s, if you've got your health.”
“Chasing the sensation. Whether it was drugs or sex or whatever. Those things had become my main focus in life.”
“This indictment marks an important milestone in the life of the president's Corporate Fraud Task Force,”
“Jazz is cultural music in New Orleans. It's part of the fabric of everyday life, and everybody knows the music. It's always going to be a part of it.”
“Never go to bed on the same day.”
“You are only good for nothing....”
“And this is an innocent human life,”
“[Perhaps surprisingly, life there hasn't been bad.] We have plenty of food and water, ... We have a generator, so we can plug in our fans.”
“I'm at a point in my life where I have something solid now. I'm a peaceful person, and I want to be surrounded by peace no matter what I'm doing.”
“One of the speakers asked how many women had been harassed or abused sexually in their life? There were thousands of women in the audience, and almost every one of them raised her hand.”
“If Darwin is right, I have organized my life around an illusion, ... We have no moral demands if we are evolved.”
“Life changes us all, ... but often nothing like death. ? After Gabriel, being a husband, being a father was different, being a legislator was different. I was different.”
“It is about her death, but it is also about our life together, we were married 23 wonderful years,”
“If your position is everywhere, your momentum is zero.”
“My, my, my ... I've been doing this work for over half my life and I finally got one right, ... Some (movies) you do for money, some you do for love. This is a love child.”
“There is no genius in life like the genius of energy and industry”
“Fishnets aims to make a major impact on improving quality of life for older people across the county - increasing the number of people who can be helped to live at home, while reducing the need for emergency hospital treatment.”
“The Magnificent Seven was really kind of a miraculous event that took place in my life.”
““A single candlelight can illuminate in the greatest darkness. But the greatest darkness can’t darken a single light.””
“He?s a local boy and he?s been training his whole life for this. He?s a conditioned athlete and he?s ready to go.”
“There will always be enough time until there is no more time.”
“In the end,we will remember not thewords of our enemies but silence of our freinds.”
“It's going great. I had more people praying for me than George Bailey in 'It's a Wonderful Life.' I feel this show is a brand new day for me. It's a rebirth.”
“These songs are Johnny's final statement. They are the truest reflection of the music that was central to his life at the time. This is the music that Johnny wanted us to hear.”
“It's very hard. Basketball is my life and I can't be out there playing right now. But I got people around me who are there for me, telling me to be patient. I miss it, though.”
“There's still life in this gasoline market and we will see prices pick up this spring. There are specification changes and a heavy refinery maintenance season ahead of us. These could erase this supply surplus as quickly as it appeared.”
“Courage doesn't always roar. Sometimes courage is the quiet voice at the end of the day saying, "I will try again tomorrow.”
“We show a little life, then we backtrack. We're so inconsistent. We don't have enough talent to cover up for our mistakes. We need to play smart every possession.”
“First, have a definite, clear practical ideal; a goal, an objective. Second, have the necessary means to achieve your ends; wisdom, money, materials, and methods. Third, adjust all your means to that end.”
“Love is composed of a single soul inhabiting two bodies.”
“It's disappointing to lose to an in-state school. But that's the facts of life right now. We had some guys who just didn't show up. When we have guys who don't show up, we're going to struggle.”
“Bob's probably got a lot going on in his life.”
“It has continued to drop in the Department of Interior budget, particularly fish and wild life.”
“There is no one who has had as much of an impact on my life.”
“He has a young outlook on life. He's just a wonderful, wonderful role model. He's just young at heart.”
“Far from being a curse, it might be lucky to disturb a pharaoh's tomb. These people beat the life span expectation for those days by about a year.”
“Nutrition isn't just about eating, it's about learning to live.”
“It was just everyday living. With me, it was fighting, more fighting, and more fighting. Life then was simply the way it was: ordinary, not bad, not good, just regular. No stress, no strain. Of course, no one had much of anything, but we didn't know that we were poor.”
“Clearly, influencers want to know what the Army is going to do for their sons or daughters for life, ... They also want to know what the global war on terrorism will mean for their sons or daughters.”
“Just his energy, it's certainly something you don't forget, that type of energy, the zeal for life that he had.”
“You're talking about a 40-year-old bridge. The bridge has outlasted its life expectancy and needs to be replaced.”
“It was a huge deal, a huge musical discovery that became life lessons learned. You can't return from having an experience like that. The Blind Boys are truly the deepest well of American musical heritage you can discover.”
“I'm one who seriously hates human life and would kill again.”
“We're playing like our life is on the line. We badly want to get to New York to improve and build. There are only three letters (NIT), but this is a very big deal to us.”
“We're playing like our life is on the line. That's hat makes it fun.”
“The person who cannot laugh is not only ready for treason, and deceptions, their whole life is already a treason and deception.”
“I told them we've just got to dig in, this is our life on the line. We can't let it get us down. And I reminded the officials what they did to my life.”
“We played probably one of our best games against Villanova, Cincinnati and now, and we're life and death to win at home with a loss on the road. That just tells you how tough it is. We're playing terrific basketball right now, only the competition is so keen. It's unbelievable. I've never seen the Big East like this. It's always been great, but it's never been like this. It's truly unbelievable.”
“I lead a most dyspeptic, solitary, self-shrouded life: consuming, if possible in silence, my considerable daily allotment of pain.”
“It has changed my life. It's a ridiculous amount to pay a caddie. I never comprehended that. When I started caddying growing up I made $5.”
“It's shocking. August is so full of life and energy and creativity and joy.”
“It doesn't work that way in life. You don't just come out of (graduate) school and become a great doctor. It takes time to build a team like we had last year. That's why from October 15th on I've never seen any greatness with this basketball team. There's too much to learn.”
“Someone like Albert sees history as so much more than just history. Albert saw history as the flow of life.”
“He seemed to be doing OK with his life.”
“The world is upheld by the veracity of good men: they make the earth wholesome. They who lived with them found life glad and nutritious. Life is sweet and tolerable only in our belief in such society.”
“I think it's going to cut the life expectancy of us coaches in half,”
“In private life I never knew anyone interfere with other people's disputes but he heartily repented of it.”
“I've been listening to them my whole life.”
“Every principle is a war-note. Whoever attempts to carry out the rule of right and love and freedom must take his life in his hand.”
“People suffer all their life long, under the foolish superstition that they can be cheated. But it is impossible for a person to be cheated by anyone but himself.”
“A person seldom falls sick, but the bystanders are animated with a faint hope that he will die.”
“It is very unhappy, but too late to be helped, the discovery we have made, that we exist”
“We all live amid surfaces, and the true art is to skate well on them.”
“There's nothing missing except Brittany, the money and her car, ... My daughter's the most wonderful thing in my life.”
“It was the most stressful day of my life. It was absolutely terrible knowing that I might have to leave because my dad's condition was unstable and my mother was looking after everything herself.”
“He was in hell for 12 years and purgatory for 13. He's been denied opportunities in life ... jobs, housing opportunities, friends have shunned him, neighbors have looked at him. ... He's spent more than half his life tainted in this shroud of guilt.”
“I just think that Morgan should get a life and get over this. I find it amazing that people are actually considering it an issue.”
“That monstrous tuberosity of civilized life, the capital of England.”
“When life gives you lemons, you make lemonade. I have several stands around here.”
“I would rather have a big burden and a strong back, than a weak back and a caddy to carry life's luggage”
“It lets me know what my life should be like. It's reassurance that there are other people who feel the same way I do.”
“Our life is not really a mutual helpfulness; but rather, it's fair competition cloaked under due laws of war; it's a mutual hostility.”
“Which is immediate fear for a person's life or the life of another. It clearly fell within those guidelines based on the information received by the board.”
“Our international businesses both had a tremendous quarter. Our results demonstrate the continued strong momentum across our life and pensions businesses.”
“Dr. King will get more recognition as a fact of life in a federally dominated America. Yet Lee and Jackson deserve considerable recognition, significantly more than today, for future Virginians to follow their example as heroes.”
“If the Army helped towards my tuition fees I would then give them four years of my life.”
“A well-written Life is almost as rare as a well-spent one”
“Reading and writing are life skills that everyone should have the opportunity to learn,”
“If this was my life every week, I would never retire. Knowing as low as I was last year, that I can come back and be playing this well, is a great feeling. Now doing it in front of the friends that got me back to where I am now, keeping me upbeat during some down times ... it just makes me feel good and is yet another reason why I have started to believe that everything happens for a reason.”
“The man who cannot laugh is not only fit for treasons, stratagems and spoils; but his whole life is already a treason and a stratagem”
“We're fortunate. This time, nobody lost their life because of the delay.”
“Insist on yourself; never imitate. Your own gift you can present every moment with the cumulative force of a whole life's cultivation; but of the adopted talent of another you have only an extemporaneous half possession.”
“The death of a dear friend, wife, brother, lover, which seemed nothing but privation, somewhat later assumes the aspect of a guide or genius; for it commonly operates revolutions in our way of life, terminates an epoch of infancy or of youth which was waiting to be closed, breaks up a wonted occupation, or a household, or style of living, and allows the formation of new ones more friendly to the growth of character.”
“It certainly disrupted economic life in New York City; there's no doubt about that. But on the business side, I think a lot of it will be made up eventually, some of it right away and some of it more spread out.”
“He's got to make some decisions about his life about how much he wants to put into football and getting an education.”
“Acting made up a substantial part of Nancy's life,”
“My odyssey is to obtain the ultimate level of awareness”
“It is easy in the world to live after the world's opinions; it is easy in solitude to live after your own; but the great man is he who in the midst of the crowd keeps with perfect sweetness the independence of solitude”
“It's not outrageous. In college I had a class at 7 at night. It's a fact of life.”
“even if the act was not a knowing act it was done under circumstances manifesting extreme indifference to human life.”
“The best advice I got was to enjoy it. It's an opportunity you've been waiting for your whole life. Don't dread it, but embrace it. It's something that you can take with you for a long time.”
“Property damage, that can be repaired, no big deal. But as far as a human life, that's something you just can't fix.”
“Life is like a problem in algebra and if you want a solution ,you must think out of box....”
“The worst of charity is that the lives you are asked to preserve are not worth preserving”
“Words are alive; cut them and they bleed.”
“The more you depend on others less happier you will be. Happiness is mostly about independence and freedom from past misery. You must forgive yourself for your errors or those errors will be permanently engraved in your memory!”
“Character is who you are in the dark.”
“If some larger-than-life personality -- let's say Colin Powell -- decided he wanted to launch a third-party candidacy for some office, I think he'd be an impact player. But he's not running.”
“I tell people to design their ideal life. What do you want to do? What do you want to be? ... Sit down, add up your expenses, write out your life.”
“Seeing the bigger picture and having a creative mindset often result in unexpected and innovative solutions.”
“We tend to think of St. Patrick's Day as one big Irish party. However, St. Patrick's Day means something special to Irish people around the world. There is much that pulls the world apart today, but St. Patrick's Day is a time to start all over again and celebrate the positive things we all share in life!”
“Everybody has to deal with injuries. That's part of football life. Football is all about adjusting, and if you can't adjust you are not going to be a good football team anyway.”
“Applause, mingled with boos and hisses, is about all that the average voter is able or willing to contribute to public life.”
“Life is like a road, there are many twists and turns, but one way or another will take you to your destination”
“Relationships are like housekeeping, you gotta take out the garbage everyday or it will start to stink!”
“I suffer whenever I see that common sight of a parent or senior imposing his opinion and way of thinking and being on a young soul to which they are totally unfit. Cannot we let people be themselves, and enjoy life in their own way? You are trying to make that man another you. One's enough.”
“Our major concern is not only business classes. We try to teach our kids life skills. Money more than anything is an important part of their life. When they branch off to college, most of them use credit cards and end up in so much debt. And we don't want them to do that.”
“No dissenter rides in his coach for three generations; he infallibly falls into the Establishment”
“Sleep lingers all our lifetime about our eyes, as night hovers all day in the boughs of the fir-tree”
“The ones that stand out are the young kids that don't get a shot at life. When you're 85 or 90, you've already had a shot, but those that are 5 or 17 or 18 don't. That affects us, too. You can't have it not affect you and be in the business.”
“The one who woke up thinking he lives for nothing, has lost a night in vain.”
“To be in love with somebody and having a fulfilling life you're not missing out on anything not having penetrative sex.”
“The poet's habit of living should be set on a key so low that the common influences should delight him”
“We often say that the heart calls out... the heart is mostly quiet, other parts are screaming for completion...”
“When your soul is overflowing, it's a sign God miscalculated your proportions!”
“But I think resolution is cheap and for lazy readers. Real life doesn't have that resolution. It's probably never going to be in my nature to deliver a proper ending.”
“Striving is perhaps the one and only true elixir, for while we converse with what is above us, we do not grow old, but grow young.”
“You make a decision about how you want to live your life.”
“To live without duties is obscene.”
“If you have talent as a screenwriter, it will out. Nothing succeeds like perseverance. Never give up. Anyway, life never turns out the way you imagine, dream or plan it to. Or hadn't you heard?”
“If you read history you will find that the Christians who did most for the present world were precisely those who thought most of the next. It is since Christians have largely ceased to think of the other world that they have become so ineffective in this.”
“There are some more expensive brands that I like, but they're not as attainable at this stage in life.”
“We are most alive when we're in love.”
“I have never seen in my entire life, such a wonderful group of youngsters so dedicated, so focused and so proud of what they did for their country.”
“There is luxury in self reproach. When we blame ourselves, we feel no one else has a right to blame us.”
“Life takes its path and sometimes there are people to blame. Of course there are bad people in this world. Good, bad, it happens unfortunately. But in a way I think if there was more focus on the good, more good would happen.”
“People to whom nothing has ever happened cannot understand the unimportance of events.”
“Footfalls echo in the memory/ Down the passage we did not take/ Towards the door we never opened/ Into the rose-garden”
“You can make of your life anything you wish. Create your own life and then go out and live it.”
“Earth teach me to forget myself as melted snow forgets its life. Earth teach me resignation as the leaves which die in the fall. Earth teach me courage as the tree which stands all alone. Earth teach me regeneration as the seed which rises in the spring. ”
“Though we are on the earth, we can still touch the sky with our determination”
“Look at life through the windshield, not the rear-view mirror”
“A wedding is such a special day in your lifetime. You dream about it, and I will help you make it into a reality.”
“Timing is everything in life.”
“Thousands of people are under-nutritioned because they do not have enough food, yet there are millions of people who are malnutritioned, and are overweight!”
“We could have altered the course of history ... and didn't. That's all life is, putting yourself in a position to be successful and grasping the moment when it's there. We had 'em on the ropes, but we weren't good enough to finish them. That's why they turned out to be national champions. Even though it was prelude to a bunch of close games to come for Ohio State, they learned something that day about themselves.”
“If we were all sposed to be perfect, then we would all be the exactly same.”
“Leave the past, live the present, love the future.”
“The true value of a human being can be found in the degree to which he has attained liberation from the self.”
“I've been working for this all my life. I did it man, and it feels great.”
“Live life fully while you're here. Experience everything. Take care of yourself and your friends. Have fun, be crazy, be weird. Go out and screw up! You're going to anyway, so you might as well enjoy the process. Take the opportunity to learn from your mistakes: find the cause of your problem and eliminate it. Don't try to be perfect; just be an excellent example of being human.”
“The thing that can be the most evil and most kind is within you, yet you choose which you will become.”
“All I know is that Ray Hultman didn't write it. He just wants get on with his life,”
“It's American pride. It's for every American who puts their life at stake for our country overseas here in America, the men, the firemen, the policemen, anybody you know that anyone who puts their life on the line for America.”
“What it lies in our power to do, it lies in our power not to do.”
“We live in an age when unnecessary things are our only necessities.”
“In writing this book I'm writing about my own life, a generation removed. But in the larger sense ... it was my discovery of Bellow's work, his voice that became for me the inspiration for this book. I was always fascinated by his life and wanted to know more about it.”
“We made a big statement. In the past years, we've been in the bottom (of the Big 12). Now we're trying to be in the top, with the rest of the Big 12 South teams.”
“whatever you gets without asking that is true.”
“Fall from none-Rise from all”
“In writing this book I'm writing about my own life, a generation removed, ... But in the larger sense ... it was my discovery of Bellow's work, his voice that became for me the inspiration for this book. I was always fascinated by his life and wanted to know more about it.”
“life is a river,nobody knows where is will go”
“If you fall.don't see the place where you fell,but see the place where youslipped...that's the way to be successful”
“Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma - which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don't let the noise of other's opinions drown out your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary.”
“He himself has said you can follow the patterns and real events in his life by reading his books, which doesn't mean you can figure out his life by reading his books. Simply that the events in his life are the starting points for the books that he writes. But that's just the beginning.”
“Dream to create you aspirations and aspire to achieve your dreams. If you dream of the skies you will reach the heavens.”
“life, funny, inspirational, war”
“You were made perfectly to be loved - and surely I have loved you, in the idea of you, my whole life long.”
“A lot of people don't want to do any of the legwork themselves. They've spent their whole life working and doing everything and now they are retired and want to be utterly pampered.”
“For all of us, it was a reality check on how precious life really is. Enjoy every day because your life can change really in a moment's notice.”
“For me, the creative process, first of all, requires a good nine hours of sleep a night. Second, it must not be pushed by the need to produce practical applications.”
“My Brother and I share the same blood but are not of the same parents.....we are one in mind, body and soul, friends and family till the end”
“It's now part of my life. So I have to be grateful for it. I tend to forget that I was in the middle of a tsunami. Then I am jolted, and I realize that it did happen.”
“If life doesn't make you laugh,then you just don't get the joke.”
“Plan for the future, because that is where you are going to spend the rest of your
life.”
“I have achieved my seventy years in the usual way, by sticking strictly to a scheme of life which would kill anybody else....I will offer here, as a sound maxim, this: That we can't reach old age by another man's road.”
“Convenience comes first without it, efficiency is irrelevant.”
“When I'm playful I use the meridians of longitude and parallels of latitude for a seine, and drag the Atlantic Ocean for whales. ... Life on the Mississippi”
“That which makes us different will make a "difference" in the world someday.”
“One life for love.”
“Life is often compared to a marathon, but I think it is more like being a sprinter; long stretches of hard work punctuated by brief moments in which we are given the opportunity to perform at our best”
“I struggled all the way to the top using up every ounce of my strength, only to discover I had climbed a shit mound!”
“There is no such thing as defense. There is only counter offense.”
“I was lucky. My grandmother stepped up for me and said she would take responsibility for me and a compassionate juvenile judge took a chance and gave me one. They were getting ready to send me away to do real time, but they sent me instead to a juvenile alternative day school. And I guess that was the beginning of my turnaround.”
“I was lucky. My grandmother stepped up for me and said she would take responsibility for me and a compassionate juvenile judge took a chance and gave me one. They were getting ready to send me away to do real time, but they sent me instead to a juvenile alternative day school. And I guess that was the beginning of my turnaround.”
“I am bubbasan because I differ, if I joined the crowd I'll just be sans bubba.”
“You spend half of your life waiting to feel bored and then the later half waiting to feel busy.”
“Look for the Truth and you will see the Error; look for the Error and you will MISS the Truth!”
“Happiness is like cotton candy, you always think you’ve a lot of it but it’s gone even before you’ve properly tasted it.”
“People have completely eliminated the heart from the equation of love, now they just love with their minds.”
“According to the old testament, the married man shall live by the rule - YES DEAR, NO DEAR, and according to the new testament, he shall live by the rule - YES DEAR, ABSOLUTELY DEAR.”
“We just did not shut the door. Every time you put them on base, you give them life, and then they?re a hit away. It?s just a shame. It?s disheartening to play so hard for seven innings and then just hand it to them in the eighth and ninth.”
“Knowing is nothing, showing is everything.”
“The endurance of the inequalities of life by the poor is the marvel of human society.”
“Every human wishes life was a big circle, childhood to teenage to manhood to old age to childhood again, but unfortunately it’s a straight line with a very definite start and an uncertain end.”
“If u Earn Money for enough that will save u, but earn lot money u have to save that.”
“How you choose to handle failure is how you choose to live your life.”
“If I could, I’d be the first person to put a boot up my own ass. I am so dumb, so juvenile to have pushed away the only person who loved me. And for what? For being sane.”
“Unlike salamanders we can’t grow back what we lose, we just learn to live without it that’s all.”
“Destinations can be made by man, but the way to the destinations can only be made by God. Choose your destinations wisely.”
“Most of us go on with our dull lives because we're too brave to give up, too chicken to commit suicide and too broke to hire a hit man to do the job for us.”
“Our officers are very aware of the value of a human life -- nobody in our department is going to (open fire) capriciously.”
“Everything in moderation, including moderation.”
“The sweet is never as sweet without the sour.”
“Each moment is nightfall not spacious enough to contain all hope that there will be morning.”
“This world is a dream... When I wake up, nothing will be left...”
“When blind, you light the inner colors, create billions of intimate hues for space, time and life.”
“The man of life upright,/ Whose guiltless heart is free/ From all dishonest deeds/ Or thought of vanity.”
“You cannot cross the borders of the soul without at least once be tempted to look back... There are worlds over there. They are calling you to turn your way... familiar faces, strangers, us who have knocked countless times at its gates and they were opened for us.”
“Keep faith on your thoughts before, you keep faith on others.”
“Everybody carries in a corner of his soul another soul until the later grows from within, incorporating, and it is not clear who carries whom through light and eternal darkness.”
“Whoever has lived long enough to find out what life is, knows how deep a debt of gratitude we owe to Adam, the first great benefactor of our race. He brought death into the world.”
“For quite a few millennia, the man has been trying to restrain souls, striving to keep himself outside.”
“Like the snake sheds its skin living for a while in another one, man strips himself from opinions gathered up until a certain age, developing others.”
“Life got ahead of me. I thought I would hurry up walking through this desert and I would await its arrival!”
“it is possible to cross a ocean without wetting legs.bit it is not possible croos a life without wetting legs.”
“A person's life rises and falls on the spiral of existence between self-Poiesis (the ability to organize itself inside its self-consciousness, without outside constraints) and influences and pressures from other subjects, participant groups or systems of existence and belief that there is a higher power that protects and coordinates his destiny.”
“Us, we are but a step on the ladder of evolution, specimens that inherit, learn, create and develop their inner and outer steps, speculate and dissect truths to improve (or maybe not) the physical and intellectual material required for the matter-energy representations to follow.”
“We isolate with every step, brick our exits, and seek deeper inside our soul for the boundary of existentialism, the essence...”
“Way of life in Australia focuses more on the outdoors.”
“The conference used to be about celebrating Jenna and her life by building self-confidence in young women.”
“It's been my life, my wife's life and my kids' life. I don't know what's going to happen.”
“Sad soul that which meets only tears in love; sad the flowerless tree with no sky with peace rains; sad the bird that shall never find its offspring.”
“Annihilation has no terrors for me, because I have already tried it before I was born /a hundred million years /and I have suffered more in an hour, in this life, than I remember to have suffered in the whole hundred million years put together. There was a peace, a serenity, an absence of all sense of responsibility, an absence of worry, an absence of care, grief, perplexity; and the presence of a deep content and unbroken satisfaction in that hundred million years of holiday which I look back upon with a tender longing and with a grateful desire to resume, when the opportunity comes.”
“July 4. Statistics show that we lose more fools on this day than in all the other days of the year put together. This proves, by the number left in stock, that one fourth of July per year is now inadequate, the country has grown so.”
“Lance, you've weaseled yourself through life using your hearing as an excuse. You're a disgrace to cripples. If I was a cripple in a wheelchair and saw [the way] you play basketball, I'd shoot myself.”
“When you open a book you go places, where your mind runs wild and your dream can soar”
“With both federal and local help we can address a problem in our community and provide a better life for these individuals.”
“It is a fact of life that the higher you go in public service and the higher your pay is the lower the expectation of privacy.”
“Get a bicycle. You will not regret it. If you live.”
“It's a new season. There's always a possibility that seniors will start thinking about life after basketball.”
“"Most politicians love themselves, but few love his people and country."
By Javier M. Heredia Velez, The Bard of the Village, Arecibo, Puerto Rico.”
“Bill Dotson holds a special place in my life,”
“We're all friends as well as teammates. We have a terrific time. We have fellows of all walks of life.”
“It's a shame that the only thing a man can do for eight hours a day is work. He can't eat for eight hours; he can't drink for eight hours; he can't make love for eight hours. The only thing a man can do for eight hours is work.”
“This is a fight I have always wanted. I thought Felix Trinidad would be the defining fight of my life but it didn't turn out the way I wanted it to. Now I'm getting a chance for redemption. I must win this fight for me, the people of Nicaragua and everyone in the world who loves me because of the way I fight.”
“Don't bother just to be better than your contemporaries or predecessors. Try to be better than yourself.”
“I don't think I've ever seen so many guys that big in my life. Those guys are just huge.”
“The best way to appreciate your job is to imagine yourself without one.”
“It is by the goodness of God that in our country we have those three unspeakably precious things: freedom of speech, freedom of conscience, and the prudence never to practice either.”
“Man was made at the end of the week's work, when God was tired”
“We figure we probably expanded his life by three years. We know he's not going to be here until he's 90 like we all hope to be.”
“You would think anyone with a life-or-death decision would want the best information possible.”
“For us to have him, it truly saved his life and helped us out a bunch.”
“Wish a miser long life, and you wish him no good.”
“The good or ill hap of a good or ill life, is the good or ill choice of a good or ill wife.”
“We're lucky because it only resulted in a monetary loss and not a loss of life or personal belongings.”
“The perfect love affair is one which is conducted entirely by post.”
“A happy and a glorious Easter will this one be to all of us who get a new vision of the risen Christ, and prostrate ourselves in humble adoration at His feet, and cry out: "Rabboni! Rabboni!" Then shall we set our hearts, lifted into a new atmosphere, on things above, and reach an actual higher life. He shall know more of what it is to live by Christ, in Christ, for Christ, and with Christ, till we reach the marvelous light round the throne in glory.”
“Once more to new creation Awake,
and death gainsay,
For death is swallowed up of life,
And Christ is risen today!”
“Common sense is instinct. Enough of it is genius.”
“For I remember it is Easter morn,
And life and love and peace are all new born.”
“Easter spells out beauty, the rare beauty of new life.”
“This was a life-changing event. We were asking people to put their families, their income, and even their stay here in the U.S. at risk. It's one thing to say come to my party, come to my event. But we've got to take care of these people.”
“Go and see the quality of life of the people on the Chiquita plantations. People living in shacks, people living with tin roofs held on by stones and with earthen floors, people working for 20 U.S. cents a day.”
“In nature we can learn life's most important lessons.”
“Tomb, thou shalt not hold Him longer;
Death is strong, but Life is stronger;
Stronger than the dark, the light;
Stronger than the wrong, the right...”
“Easter is the demonstration of God that life is essentially spiritual and timeless.”
“If life is short, then how come most books reflect the opposite approach?”
“If you're going to be stupid you had better be tough.”
“Go and see the quality of life of the people on the Chiquita plantations, ... People living in shacks, people living with tin roofs held on by stones and with earthen floors, people working for 20 U.S. cents a day.”
“The resurrection gives my life meaning and direction and the opportunity to start over no matter what my circumstances.”
“If life were only mathematics, we would all live a very dull life.”
“Otis is always in my ear, giving me advice on everything related to basketball and life. I don't know how other GMs work, but with Otis you just know he's going to be there every day. And seeing him there, it just makes it seem like he cares a little more.”
“When you want plenty of problems, seek the people!”
“There is a moment of birth, of living and of death in any hope.”
“The thing we're happy about is that there wasn't as much loss of life or property damage as there might have been, ... This is still a dangerous situation.”
“I have always noticed that people will never laugh at anything that is not based on truth.”
“Life stories are mostly story.”
“I'd like to meet the person that wants to be old!”
“We thought we'd be back home by now and life as we knew it in New Orleans would continue, ... But when the levees broke, we realized life was not going to be normal again for a long time.”
“I thought I was done. I've never had an injury like that in my life. I thought I was going to be out like two months. I'm just glad it happened during spring training and before the regular season.”
“His life expectancy wasn't very long after he was taken to the Animal Rescue League.”
“Here, we see it as another phase of life.”
“When you are in 'attention', you are 'at tension'.
There is no need to be in attention, just be 'aware', that's enough!”
“I've never been more proud of a group of girls in my life. Unfortunately, the breaks just didn't go our way tonight.”
“For a total solution, you need to ask 'How?' Asking 'Why?' will only give you an answer, not a solution!
You need techniques, not words - for life solutions.”
“We're all the same. We all want the same thing in life. Everybody going around like ants and we all want the same thing. And it's not one queen. It's not one queen with the wings.”
“Let me be cruel, not unnatural;
I will speak daggers to her, but use none.”
“It's huge. I mean, it's the biggest win of my life.”
“Dubai has been trying to prove to the rest of the Arab world that there is life after oil, and that in fact it's a better life. The good news is there is room for a second and a third Dubai, just like there was room for a second Singapore in Asia.”
“Fail as many times I would
Fall and hurt as walk I never could,
But try another step;
For I think I can and I should~”
“He who laughs, lasts.”
“There are numerous international and US P-3 customers that will require P-3 life extension kits to sustain their aircraft. The production of the outer wing is a critical part of life extension that will provide an additional 20 years of service life. The kit also includes the centre wing lower surface, horizontal stabilizer, wing and horizontal stabilizer leading edges, and filet fairings. The kit incorporates design enhancements and new materials with increased corrosion resistance that will provide P-3 operators an additional 15,000 hours of service life with significantly reduced maintenance costs, reduced down time and increased aircraft availability.”
“The best day of your life is the one on which you decide your life is your own. No apologies or excuses. No one to lean on, rely on, or blame. The gift is yours - it is an amazing journey - and you alone are responsible for the quality of it. This is the day your life really begins.”
“The Divine makes our fall a means for greater rise.”
“Our tasks are given, we are but instruments.
Nothing is all our own that we create.”
“Interest in extending the service life of the world's P-3 and CP-140 fleet has increased as a result of the P-3 Structural Life Assessment Program (SLAP). With many of the P-3 aircraft in operation now reaching their service life limits sooner than expected, and with no affordable replacement maritime patrol aircraft available, a service life extension is the only way for nations to maintain this vital operational capability.”
“It was the best experience of my life,”
“She's not over that tragedy. She has gone on with her life, but there is a big question mark. We didn't talk about it. I hadn't seen her since the accident, so I asked how she was doing in general and she said she was taking one day at a time.”
“The quality of life for our citizens and the quality of life for our businesses is entwined.”
“No there's nothing half so sweet in life
As love's young dream.”
“City life is millions of people being lonesome together.”
“This is to bring your taste buds back to life. Just thinking about some of those foods makes my mouth water. Everything is homemade, including the desserts.”
“He who wouldn't marry for money has never been married before”
“It is not how one begins the journey of life rather how one ends it.”
“The true test of manhood is not age or life experiences, but when you stop looking for solutions and become that of which you are looking for...”
“Wish not so much to live long as to live well.”
“Wish not so much to live long as to live well.”
“If there is one thing that I have learned it is that throughout life you are given opportunities to do the right thing EVERY time...”
“It makes a big statement. We've always in the past years been at the bottom of the Big 12. Now, we're trying to make our way to the top ... with the rest of the South teams.”
“Experience is the father of intolerance, guidance is the mother.”
“Perfect never learns and intellect is never perfect”
“When Death puts out our Flame, the Snuff will tell,/ If we were Wax, or Tallow by the Smell./ At a great Pennyworth, pause a while.”
“Family life is full of major and minor crises -- the ups and downs of health, success and failure in career, marriage, and divorce -- and all kinds of characters. It is tied to places and events and histories. With all of these felt details, life etches itself into memory and personality. It's difficult to imagine anything more nourishing to the soul.”
“I have discovered that people with money have no imagination, and people with imagination have no money”
“The Master-piece of Man, is to live to the purpose”
“I look forward to retirement life. It's been a great time. I've learned a lot, but now it's time to move on.”
“A leaf fluttered in through the window this morning, as if supported by the rays of the sun, a bird settled on the fire escape, joy in the task of coffee, joy accompanied me as I walked…”
“As each day passes by your past is past plus one and your future is future minus one.”
“I simply choose to do what others choose not to.”
“If you teach a poor young man to shave himself, and keep his razor in order, you may contribute more to the happiness of his life than in giving him a thousand guineas.”
“I like university professors, but you know, we shouldn't hold them up as the high-water mark of all human achievement. They're just a form of life, another form of life.”
“Consider then, when you are tempted to buy any unnecessary Housholdstuff, or any superfluous thing, whether you will be willing to pay Interest, and Interest upon Interest for it as long as you live; and more if it grows worse by using”
“To live and let live, without clamour for distinction or recognition; to wait on divine love; to write truth first on the tablet of one's own heart - this is the sanity and perfection of living.”
“He's an energetic and enthusiastic guy and that's been very infectious. Plus, everybody loves the guy so much, how can you let Pinball down?
"You just don't.”
“I've had a long career in the NBA and have enjoyed my experience. I look forward to retirement life. It doesn't mean I am not going to stay busy, but it's time to move on and accomplish some of the other goals that I have set for myself. It's been a great time. I've learned a lot, but now it's time to move on.”
“Touchdowns mean a lot to nonbelievers. But in life, God is six points.”
“Anger ruins joy, steals the goodness of my mind, forces my mouth to say terrible things. Overcoming anger brings peace of mind, leads to a mind without regrets. If I overcome anger, I will be delightful and loved by everyone.”
“It is the universe that makes fun of us all.”
“You don't have to understand here, to be here.”
“I investigate things to complete my knowledge, my complete knowledge makes my thoughts sincere, my thoughts being sincere; my heart is pure.”
“I want to be the unwobbling pivot at the center of an ever-revolving universe. I want to be still.”
“The best thing about this sport is that you can do it all your life. I know people who started fencing when they were 70 years old. This is a sport where using your head really counts. 'Physical chess' is a term that's been frequently applied to fencing. Really, the mind is the most important weapon you have in this sport.”
“People who get through life dependent on other people's possessions are always the first to lecture you on how little possessions count.”
“Change? Why? What did u like me for, in the first place?”
“Life itself is the feminine….whenever you are feeling isolated and weary, feel the present moment as if it were a woman.”
“If you wouldst live long, live well; for folly and wickedness shorten life”
“Take away anything that dulls your edge. No newspapers or magazines. No TV. No candies, cookies or sweets. No sex. No cuddling. No reading of anything at all while you eat or sit on the toilet. Reduce working time to a necessary minimum. No movies. No conversation that isn’t about truth, love, or the divine.”
“All would live long; but none would be old”
“The Past is history the future is a mystery, and today is a gift that is why you call it present.”
“There seem to be but three ways for a nation to acquire wealth. The first is by war, as the Romans did, in plundering their conquered neighbors. This is robbery. The second by commerce, which is generally cheating. The third by agriculture, the only honest way, wherein man receives a real increase of the seed thrown into the ground, in a kind of continual miracle, wrought by the hand of God in his favor, as a reward for his innocent life and his virtuous industry.”
“Live not in the depressive past, nor the anxious future, but NOW.”
“He that raises a large family does, indeed, while he lives to observe them, stands a broader mark for sorrow; but then he stands a broader mark for pleasure, too.”
“The ability to use one card for all systems makes my life a lot easier. Card access also promotes safety and security on campus. With the electronic CM locks, we can pick and choose access areas and maintain a certain security level. Security is not compromised.”
“The price of feminism, is being paid by single 35 year old women”
“You know the Stone, was not really such a wonderful thing. As much money and life as you could want! The two things most human beings would choose above all -- the trouble is, humans do have a knack for choosing precisely those things that are worst for them.
-Albus Dumbledore to Harry Potter-”
“I predict that in a hundred years people will ask what is money?”
“He spent his whole life in Chicago. He's ready to step away from that. We used to come [to Manhattan] in the summer and hang out. He always loved New York.”
“Happiness consists more in the small conveniences of pleasures that occur every day, than in great pieces of good fortune that happen but seldom to a man in the course of his life.”
“They are looking for people with business experience or life experience they can take and bring to the kids. It's a really good program.”
“Though it be in the power of the weakest arm to take away life, it is not in the strongest to deprive us of death.”
“Where increase of life ceases, dissolution and death set in at once.”
“It's not just a concert anymore. It is something that will stay with you the rest of your life, knowing that you are helping someone else.”
“Long years ago we made a tryst with destiny, and now the time comes when we shall redeem our pledge, not wholly or in full measure, but very substantially. At the stroke of the midnight hour, when the world sleeps, India will awake to life and freedom.”
“To permit your mind to dwell upon the inferior is to become inferior and to surround yourself with inferior things.”
“I want work-life balance and an interesting and challenging job. It's a whole package thing. You want to make sure you are going to be happy.”
“Yesterday's home runs don't win today's games.”
“How about a little noise. How do you expect a man to putt?”
“There are many of us that are willing to do great things for the Lord, but few of us are willing to do little things.”
“I want work-life balance and an interesting and challenging job. It's a whole package thing. You want to make sure you are going to be happy.”
“It shows our attitude, from the Asian point of view, toward life _ magnificent but short. And what I also wanted to talk about is the freedom of heart.”
“He's still out enjoying his life and my brother is gone. We would like to see a little bit of justice, that's all.”
“If you aren't where you should be, you are where you shouldn't be.”
“Don't worry about a thing, every little thing is gonna be alright”
“If you ask what their priority in life was, it was their children.”
“Live for the things you believe in no matter what, for we are only here for a limited time.”
“The object of a new year is not that we should have a new year. It is that we should have a new soul”
“I spent three years of my life trying to save the building.”
“To all of this, add humility.”
“If you don't risk anything, you risk even more.”
“The main thing is to go into the New Year with the right outlook and view it as a lifestyle change, not just a temporary program with a quick turnaround. You need to take several classes and find something you like and can live with. Also, any weight loss program involves diet and exercise, not one or the other. Just take baby steps and don't go crazy.”
“Everything you want is outside your comfort zone. If it wasn’t, you would already have it.”
“All of the villains in my life have been great smoothies.”
“Anything for a quiet life”
“I've never caught an elephant before. She had pretty good life on her fastball. It tailed a little bit.”
“If you knew beyond a shadow of a doubt that you had exactly ten years to live, how would you live differntly?”
“Everything's plastic, we're all gonna die.”
“The beauty of grace is that it makes like not fair.”
“The new year gives people a lot of motivation to get going that they might not have just on any other day.”
“You learn from it, you know? We're working on our weaknesses and developing our strengths. This is a new year with a lot of new guys.”
“You never know what the New Year will bring. So, even if you're not yet planning to have a baby, when you start the New Year, resolve to help give your baby a healthy start in life.”
“I think this season was such a good one because it was a reflection of life. Life's going to have peaks and valleys. If you can stay in between ? not let your highs be too high or lows be too low ? you can survive. That's just life.”
“We will open the book. Its pages are blank. We are going to put words on them ourselves. The book is called Opportunity and its first chapter is New Year's Day.”
“Be changless, but ever changing. changless in your goals of life, but ever changing in how you achieve them.”
“A textbook has a very short life. I'm sure they have compensated for that.”
“The main thing in one's own private world is to try to laugh as much as you cry.”
“We want to get on with life. This was all hard on the team and the sponsors, so moving on is the way we'd rather do it. It's our fault, and I wish they had done whatever they're going to do - either today or tomorrow - last week and been done with it.”
“It's an exciting and interesting film that is unique in the way it deals with real life in this district.”
“That's just life. It's unfair and the only thing you can do about is become informed more about the issue.”
“To travel hopefully is a better thing than to arrive.”
“We just want to get on with life.”
“Just when you are down and out,think!May be,its time for Emotional Hygiene.”
“You might laugh when I say this, but I guess it's like your wife having a newborn. You hold it in your hands for the first time and get that exciting feeling to be a father. It's just exciting for us to continue to keep this run going. It can't be any better than this.”
“Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting: The soul that rises with us, our life's star, Hath had elsewhere its setting, And cometh from afar. Not in entire forgetfulness, And not in utter nakedness, But trailing clouds of glory, do we come From God, who is our home: Heaven lies about us in our infancy.”
“We just want to get on with life. It's not fun for us. It's not been fun for the team. We're just doing the best we can. We're not ducking it.”
“In the sheltered simplicity of the first days after a baby is born, one sees again the magical closed circle, the miraculous sense of two people existing only for each other.”
“ A little thing done, is better then a big thing planned”
“Hypnosis is not only a tool to make wonderful changes in your life. It's a way to de-stress. Your pulse slows. Your blood pressure comes down. When that happens, you see things more clearly. You're primed for making changes.”
“Honestly in my opinion I don't think their parents care enough. I love them. They're my life, my job is to take care of them.”
“Where much is expected from an individual, he may rise to the level of events and make the dream come true.”
“Security is mostly a superstition. It does not exist in nature, nor do the children of men as a whole experience it. Avoiding danger is no safer in the long run than outright exposure. Life is either a daring adventure, or nothing.”
“There is no question that philosophically he is pro-life, he is a very religious individual. But I think in his stint as a governor and attorney general of Missouri, he was fair and balanced and a person who applied the law fairly.”
“The life of a small group of people, who live true to their convictions, does more
and more certain good than all writing. Let us, therefore, young and old, direct all
our actions as much as possible towards the realization of our convictions.”
“In a Fight its not about how strong you are, its about how weak the enemy is.”
“If one does not know to which port one is sailing, no wind is favourable”
“The camp was liberated, but we as human beings were not. That was the saddest day of my life. For the first time, I thought about something other than putting food in my mouth. I realized I'm 15 years old, and I have nobody. I belong to nobody. Nobody belongs to me, and I belong nowhere.”
“Where there is life, there is hope Where there are hopes, there are dreams. Where
there are vivid dreams repeated, they become goals. Goals become the action
plans and game plans that winners dwell on in intricate detail, knowing that
achievement is almost automatic when the goal becomes an inner commitment.
The response to the challenges of life – purpose is
the healing balm that enables
each of us to face up to adversity and strife.”
“The greatest pleasure in life is doing what others say cannot be done.”
“It's an aspect of life we don't get to see every day. Maybe we give some inspiration. But it's a lot of fun to see smiles on their faces. We're getting something out of it. It makes me want to work harder -- I feel gifted.”
“I harvest pieces of time from hour plates. I am a collector of past.”
“When scolding an apprentice, remember to thank him for making you the honor.”
“Your regrets aren't what you did, but what you didn't do. So I take every opportunity.”
“This is the kind of opportunity I've been working for my whole life, ... I thought I could have played better, but I think I did all right as a whole. You need a continued number of reps to really get into a rhythm. This will be my first time to get significant playing time.”
“I've never been this lucky in my entire life. 2005 has been the luckiest year by far.”
“Another flaw in the human character is that everybody wants to build and nobody wants to do maintenance.”
“Judges are professionals, leave the judging to them.”
“I'm very moralistic, and I don't believe in anything. I see that this is the only life I have to live, and there's no afterlife, so I have to live it the best I can.”
“I asked him what the prognosis was. And he said that without medication, my life expectancy was about two years.”
“Every second spent away from those you love, is like watching the world through a slate of sound proof glass.”
“Trifles make up the happiness or the misery of human life”
“We are destined to be roots, trunks, branches, and wings. When flying is out of reach, we are two hands of dirt closer to infinity.”
“Life is politics, making decisions, Taking the correct roads. Turn left as a communist. Turn right as an Extremist, Or go Forward in your life, make decisions on your own free from pressure and it is certain you will be yourself.”
“We are people – maybe the last meanings, maybe the beginning – the illusion of the only hope – life.”
“No man can understand why a woman shouldn't prefer a good reputation to a good time.”
“This is the kind of opportunity I've been working for my whole life. I thought I could have played better (against TCU), but I think I did all right as a whole. You need a number of reps to really get into a rhythm. This will be my first time to get significant playing time.”
“In old age there is nothing as terrifying as the pity others (don't) show when you fall.”
“I would say that only the lonely understands another lonely person's suffering, but I'd have to add the one that knew joy and the space he lived his life in next to and through others.”
“We stabilized there and showed some life. We didn't fold the tents. Offensively and defensively, we got our heads back into the game. It wasn't an 11-3 game. We're closer to them than 11-3, but there are some things we have to work on.”
“Is never too soon to smile and never too late, I tell myself every morning. Be wise and live and let the others live their lives too. And smile keep smiling...”
“Treatment of sleep related breathing disorders is not successful until the patient no longer snores”
“The sleep disordered breathing continuum predicts that you cannot have upper airway resistance syndrome or obstructive sleep apnea and not snore.”
“Sleep onset feedback therapy works to help subjective insomniacs perceive the difference between sleep and wakefulness.”
“To live – yes, I've heard of this opinion before.”
“There will always be "petty tyrants" who are more interested in what time you came to work than what you did while you were there." "And, you will not find them after 5 p.m. to bother you”
“(It's) very shocking, with what seems to be a large loss of life. Our hearts and our prayers go out to those who have lost loved ones.”
“Do not depend on an institution for your own happiness”
“The secret of living is to find...the pivot of a concept on which you can make
your stand.”
“Who is the most important person in the world? The doctor when you are sick; the President of United States during a missile crisis and the pizza delivery boy when you are very hungry”
“Live as you are dying tomorrow, learn as you are living for ever.”
“The greatest revolution of my life is the discovery that individuals can change the
outer aspects of their lives by changing the inner attitudes of their minds.”
“It's over. Everything that we've done all year, it's over. I'll just swallow real hard and go on with life, get ready for next year.”
“I'm happily married for two months now and very blessed, ... Very content with life. It's good getting a little break from the game.”
“I don't believe in taking unnecessary risks, but a life without risk isn't worth
living.”
“Nature gives you the face you have when you are twenty. Life shapes the face
you have at thirty. But it is up to you to earn the face you have at fifty.”
“What I still ask for daily - for life as long as I have work to do, and work as long as I have life”
“The big lesson of life is never be scared of anyone or anything. Fear is the enemy
of logic.”
“You have to begin to lose your memory, if only in bits and pieces, to realize that memory is what makes our lives. Life without memory is no life at all, just as an intelligence without the possibility of expression is not really an intelligence. Our memory is our coherence, our reason, our feeling, even our action. Without it, we are nothing.”
“Nothing lasts forever--not even your troubles.”
“Kids want to play with products that relate to real life. They've been raised in a digital world. It's a natural progression for kids to want to use the cool tools they see…others using.”
“It's hard. But I want them to be well. I want them to live a normal, regular life.”
“Death does not concern us, because as long as we exist, death is not here. And when it does come, we no longer exist.”
“Path to Success: Determine where you are and the plan you have to change it. Then the wise succeed in accomplishing it by obtaining accountability from ones wiser then themselves. Conversely the path of a fool is to determine where you are and the plan to hide it from the ones wise enough to hold you accountable to change it.”
“I wondered what else in my life I perceived to be wrong or difficult instead of
exploring to understand the true purpose.”
“The officer's life was threatened when the suspect lunged at him.”
“I've had a wonderful, wonderful life. He who gives while he lives also knows where the money goes, so I'm a happy man.”
“Nobody likes a smart-ass, but everybody wants to be one. Don't be a smart-ass.”
“[Rich says they came up with an ingenious way to resolve the family's plight and help real-life hurricane victims, too.] One of Reba's great loves is her work for Habitat for Humanity, ... So that's how the family ends up getting relocated to New Orleans. In this episode we're keeping awareness of the hurricane survivors alive and promoting one of the solutions. We'll be running PSAs for Habitat and Whirlpool, a company that is a great contributor to Habitat.”
“Increasingly, employees across all life stages - but especially Singles and Young Families - are viewing the workplace as the site of choice for purchasing investment and protection products. As this trend continues, expect employers to recognize that the 'one-size-fits-most' approach may no longer be an effective way to communicate to their employees.”
“Permitting your life to be taken over by another person is like letting the waiter
eat your dinner.”
“To lengthen thy life, lessen thy meals.”
“Our town has grown. For a good quality of life you have to stay ahead of the curve.”
“Pat doesn't know any strangers. She made room in her life for [those] who needed time, attention and a willing ear.”
“If you're unhappy, what is it in your life that you're not facing?”
“Records are meant to be broken but, memories are meant to last forever.”
“If we don't know what we want, we become like a floating balloon. Our direction
in life is at the mercy of external forces.”
“There exists a gap between what patients expect with regard to end of life care and what actually happens,”
“For any student of history, change is the law of life. Any attempt to contain it
guarantees an explosion down the road; the more rigid the adherence to the status
quo, the more violent the ultimate outcome will be.”
“Life is a mirror, if you frown at it, it frowns back; if you smile, it returns the
greeting.”
“"There are abundant of things to learn about in this world. Just like a swan which can extract milk from the water, we should choose which is useful for this lifetime and future lives. Not only for oneselves but also for others.”
“Life's a trip, but you'll have several stumbles before you actually hit the ground.”
“The ones you love the most have the ability to hurt you the most.”
“So I started gardening. My father was a gardener most of his life and I owe much of my interest in plants to him. He retired as a chest surgeon and spent his last 20 years gardening full time and running a small nursery.”
“Our attitude is these things should be part of the Christian life year-round.”
“If you were starting over today, what changes would you make in your life?”
“The very least you can do in your life is to figure out what you hope for. And the
most you can do is live inside that hope. Not admire it from a distance but live
right in it, under its roof. Right now I'm living in that hope, running down its
hallway, and touching the walls on both sides.”
“There are two kinds of people in this world, those that watch things happen, and those that make things happen. Who do you want to be?”
“The way we should take life is to ensure that if a biography is ever written about us, that it is a bloody good read.”
“We hope our life would have been as easy as our thoughts are.”
“Quite a ride. I'll remember it for the rest of my life. Unfortunately it had to stop short both times here.”
“It would seem we die on a daily bases. As humans we stay awake a certain period of time, until our bodies weaken and our minds become fragile than we sleep to wake into our deaths all over again.
It is true "Practice makes perfect" .”
“As I say YES to life, life says YES to me!”
“If you arn't where you should be, you are where you shouldn't be”
“It's the most horrible experience of my life, ... a farce.”
“150 years ago you weren't alive but you weren't dead either.”
“You never know how young you are, until ten years later”
“And the wild regrets and the bloody sweats None knew so well as I: That he who lives more lives than one, More deaths than one shall die.”
“I would much rather have regrets about not doing what people said, than regretting not doing what my heart led me to and wondering what life had been like if I'd just been myself.”
“Life is like a bed of roses, so much is beautiful, but be mindful of the thorns.”
“Life is like a restaurant: you walk in, hopefully find good food and good company, and walk back out.”
“"Do not waste your life on "I wish I would have", explore new things, try new things, and create new things".”
“We are all traveller's in this World.
Our life long Friend's are found on empty road's.
Whilst we walk alone seeking our destination in life.”
“The only true gift you can give anyone
Is the ...'REAL YOU'.”
“Just as atomic weapons changed the very way we thought about life, so too the potential of major climatic changes puts life as we know it in danger.”
“Life is an Amazing, Hard, Wonderful and Terrible Thing and we never come out of it alive .. so live it!”
“I would rather be alone and happy than be with someone who makes me miserable!”
“He was part of my dream, of course - but then I was part of his dream too.”
“Each time that one loves is the only time one has ever loved. Difference of object does not alter singleness of passion. It merely intensifies it. We can have but one great experience at best, and the secret of life is to reproduce that experience as often as possible. The Picture of Dorian Gray”
“What would life be like if we had no courage to attempt anything?”
“He's become a leader of this group. He's vocal and he's putting his time in. As in life with anything, you get out of things what you put into it and man, I tell you what, he's come to play.”
“The musicians did an amazing job of bringing the pieces to life by adding their own flavor to each of the pieces, and I really enjoyed that.”
“Business has never had improving the quality of life of the general public as one of its priorities.”
“He has more life in his legs than anybody, and you can tell.”
“What between the duties expected of one during one's lifetime, and the duties exacted from one after one's death, land has ceased to be either a profit or a pleasure. It gives one position, and prevents one from keeping it up. That's all that can be said about land.”
“Good humor is a tonic for mind and body. It is the best antidote for anxiety and depression. It is a business asset. It attracts and keeps friends. It lightens human burdens. It is the direct route to serenity and contentment.”
“The stage is not merely the meeting place of all the arts, but is also the return of art to life.”
“If you don't run your own life....someone else will.”
“This is a significant decrease. They narrowed the playing field, which will bring card collecting back to life.”
“Stop blame game otherwise we are heading nowhere.”
“There is something terribly morbid in the modern sympathy with pain. One should sympathize with the color, the beauty, the joy of life. The less said about life's sores the better.”
“I know, of course, how important it is not to keep a business engagement, if one wants to retain any sense of the beauty of life.”
“I didn't put my life savings on the line.”
“To walk throught life it's a big challange.To remember the past it's a suicide.To see the future it's a bitterly miracle”
“Who didn't lose a road in life?”
“War:The way you ask for freedom and kill life”
“High standards are expectations and results that are based on what is possible not on what is acceptable.”
“Gratitude is emotions and expressions that are governed by the humility and the appreciation of the efforts of others.”
“Pleasure is the only thing to live for. nothing ages like happiness.”
“In spite of the roaring of the young lions at the Union, and the screaming of the rabbits in the home of the vivisect, in spite of Keble College, and the tramways, and the sporting prints, Oxford still remains the most beautiful thing in England, and nowhere else are life and art so exquisitely blended, so perfectly made one.”
“That was the worst day in my golfing life. I tried to keep it together but it just didn't work out.”
“Happiness is Not a Pursuit. Forget about the “Pursuit of Happiness”and you’ll become happy. Happiness is a state of mind, regardless of your goals in life or where you are going, you can travel your life's journey happy or unhappy”
“Burning Man is such a huge part of my life and my identity. The things I believe make me a good person are the things I learned at Burning Man.”
“Happiness is an Open mind. Beware of your stereotypes and prejudices, they can trap you in a box and make you miss what life has to offer you”
“There is something tragic about the enormous number of young men there are in England at the present moment who start life with perfect profiles, and end by adopting some useful profession.”
“The 'American Way of life' is living on credit and pretending you're Bill Gates.”
“Learn every moment of happiness to live deliberately, have never too busy to love it,or to give”
“dying is just the price of living life to the fullest and i am prepared to take it”
“He rides in the row at ten o clock in the morning, goes to the Opera three times a week, changes his clothes at least five times a day, and dines out every night of the season. You don't call that leading an idle life, do you?”
“I don't like playing games, Yet Life played it with me..”
“I think it reassures people that John McCain has a good record on the right to life issue and it can cut through some of the misrepresentations the Bush campaign has put out on our record.”
“Cultivate and trust your own genius. You are
it. Everyone else's genius is just as precious.
Act accordingly. If what you are taught makes
no sense, you are beginning to learn. Be
suspicious of whatever society says you must
do. The social order is necessary, but often
not in your best interests. Follow your nose
wherever it may lead. Use your eyes, ears,
mind and heart well. They are all you have.”
“Ultimately, man should not ask what the meaning of his life is, but rather must
recognize that it is he who is asked. In a word, each man is questioned by life; and
he can only answer to life by answering for his own life; to life he can only
respond by being responsible.”
“I had soo many relationship right back, but I would say that I want to be her first and definitely my last romance.”
“God, make me blind so i can never see her face again...God, make me deaf so i can never hear her voice again...but God, dont make me be unable to feel love because if i had to stop loving her...i would have no one to live for.”
“God will not give you victory in any area of your life in which you are to proud to at first admit defeat.”
“My life is perfect as it is. Until I wake tomorrow and a whole new day redefines perfection. I'm always exactly where I'm suppose to be”
“I am lovable and capable. I am not perfect. I don’t have to be.
I have worth. My worth cannot be measured by a grade point average or a scoreboard. The worth I have comes from the heart of my caretakers- people in this world who love me for me. Not for how I look or how I speak, but just for me.Through success and failure I remain the same. I am loveable and capable. God loves me. I am the accepted”
“As in the best tradition of the Christian community, death can bring a renewed sense of life. That is the case here. There is a renewed sense of respect and honor for each other, a renewed sense of honesty and friendship.”
“He's playing every shot like his life depends on it.”
“God will not give you victory in your life in any are in which you are to proud to at first admit defeat.”
“If you're not a liberal at twenty you have no heart, if you're not a conservative at forty you have no brain.”
“A tattoo is a premanent reminder of a temporary feeling.”
“life is full of unexpected, but we should always expect one thing: change.”
“We live in yesterday's "impossible".”
“Ballooning isn't a sport; it's a way of life. (People) love their balloons. They tailgate.”
“As a wicked man I am a complete failure. Why, there are lots of people who say I have never really done anything wrong in the whole course of my life. Of course they only say it behind my back.”
“There's an ancient mosaic called the Tree of Life. All religions are branches of one tree.”
“Anyone who seeks a prayer life guided by Scripture will not take this study seriously. Prayer is based upon a relationship, namely a relationship with God through Jesus Christ, and prayer is itself a part of that relationship. And relationships cannot properly be evaluated by scientific methods.”
“I blew it today. That's the life of a closer. I'm ready to go tomorrow.”
“Bad artists always admire each other's work. They call it being large-minded and free from prejudice. But a truly great artist cannot conceive of life being shown, or beauty fashioned, under any conditions other than those he has selected.”
“The only way a woman can ever reform her husband is by boring him so completely that he loses all possible interest in life”
“If we did that we'll go a long way towards poverty alleviation, promoting development and allowing a better life for all, for the people of both countries.”
“To regret one's own experiences is to arrest one's own development. To deny one's own experiences is to put a lie into the lips of one's life. It is no less than a denial of the soul.”
“Misfortunes one can endure - they come from outside, they are accidents. But to suffer for one's own faults - Ah! there is the sting of life.”
“My view is that there is a good possibility there is life on Mars, probably in the subsurface. We know from examples on Earth that life can exist in extreme places, and Mars seems to have the necessary ingredients for that.”
“Relations are simply a tedious pack of people, who haven't the remotest knowledge of how to live, nor the smallest instinct about when to die”
“He gave 22 years of his life to this university, ... We haven't gone out and done what we needed to do as a football team.”
“For he who lives more lives than one - More deaths than one must die”
“There are some things so serious you have to laugh at them.”
“To fail is not a character flaw,
just simply knowledge gained.”
“we all have different colors that we wear...it would be nice if we all accepted that and got rid of the judgements and stopped listening to what "society" deems acceptable!”
“There would be nothing to gain by sowing a field of wheat…
if the harvest did not return more than was sown.”
“Be yourself; who decides what "normal" is anyhoo?”
“Everything you need to survive in this world lives right inside you, you just have to be still for a minute”
“Try to give the respect that you would like to have given, to everyone that you encounter.”
“There is a purpose to our lives that each day tugs at our sleeve as an annoying distraction.”
“Gadget Guy's Gamer Epitaph. I Paid, I Played, Game Over!”
“No matter how sunny, for me it's still a Raine Day”
“There is nothing better than knowing we're affecting people's lives with our music. To have an impact over someone's life is such an amazing thing for me.”
“It's going to get back to normal eventually. We're going to bring the life back.”
“I can't remember life without diabetes. It's part of me and I've accepted it. I didn't think twice about it.”
“Everything will be fine. Don't worry about your world.”
“That's kind of been the story of my life. Everything kind of takes a little longer for me in order to be successful.”
“Laugh at yourself and at life. Not in the spirit of derision or whining selfpity,
but as a remedy, a miracle drug, that will ease your pain, cure your depression,
and help you to put in perspective that seemingly terrible defeat and worry with
laughter at your predicaments, thus freeing your mind to think clearly toward the
solution that is certain to come.”
“Dream! nobody can stop you to dream...
dream is a powerfull spell to be success...”
“Evolve' Don't 'Revolve”
“Until all students are faced by the tragedies, the contradictions and the stark questions of life, they cannot understand the need for redemption or God's redemptive action.”
“Pain is the price you pay for resisting life.”
“In the U.S.if it's not disposable we don't want it”
“In love there are always conditions unless it's from your dog.”
“In picking a winner, everybody has and opinon but nobody really knows for sure”
“The world is a playground, and life is pushing my swing.”
“I was drinking and being stupid. I've given up drinking. Life is too short and you have to value the time that you have.”
“Endeavor and persistence lead to success, this is a causality rule and works in 99% of the cases. But we need to put at least 1% for God's will to make sure of the justice...”
“What a thrill it was to play opposite Maurice Evans in this brilliant, dazzling musical, based on the life of two of the greatest personalities in stage history.”
“I can´t remember life 
 without diabetes, ... It´s part of me and I´ve accepted it. I didn´t think twice 
 about it.”
“A man live's to hear what they say at his funeral”
“From the past we have to learn, the future we have to plan, and NOW we have to act!”
“The great lesson from the true mystics is that the sacred is in the ordinary, that it is to be found in one's daily life, in one's neighbors, friends, and family, and in one's backyard.”
“The Stock market RUNS on THREE things: Optimism, Skepticism, Criticism.”
“It's a fact of life; creative shops have to compete with shops from anywhere,”
“He challenges himself, he sets high standards, makes the sacrifices he needs to make in his social life. ... Few people know what kind of character and work ethic he has.”
“Socialites kid each other, their way of life, their friends; and I kid the whole setup.”
“The chief objection of playing wind instruments is that it prolongs the life of the player”
“Success takes more than a stroke of brilliance, it also requires brilliant stroking”
“I have not wasted my life trifling with literary fools in taverns, as Johnson did, when he should have been shaking England with the thunder of his spirit”
“Blogs are the socialized housing of text”
“both the critical eye and the loving eye must be used in order to put something into focus”
“Humans are creatures of waste, so it is our duty to minimize our consumption and to ensure that we, as individuals are worthy of the waste that is created. A dull whining paranoiac who is a model of thrift but of little else is more symbolic of waste than an interesting and creative materialist.”
“I thought Love lived in the hot sunshine,
But O, he lives in the moony light!
I thought to find Love in the heat of day,
But sweet Love is the comforter of night.”
“Money talks, but sometimes I just want to get some sleep”
“The Indian way of life provides the vision of the natural, real way of life. We veil ourselves with unnatural masks. On the face of India are the tender expressions which carry the mark of the Creator's hand. In the face of an Indian, you can see the natural glory of life, while we have covered ourselves with an artificial cloak.”
“The Indian way of life provides the vision of the natural, real way of life. We veil ourselves with unnatural masks. On the face of India are the tender expressions which carry the mark of the Creator's hand. In the face of an Indian, you can see the natural glory of life, while we have covered ourselves with an artificial cloak.”
“You suck at life.”
“Love the person you don't share anything in common but only the Love for each other.”
“It's a fact of life now.”
“The longer I live, the more I see that I am never wrong about anything, and that all the pains I have so humbly taken to verify my notions have only wasted my time.”
“You will find as you look back upon your life that the moments when you have truly lived, are the moments when you have done things in the spirit of love.”
“Your life is much more important than your things.”
“Life on board a pleasure steamer violates every moral and physical condition of healthy life except fresh air... It is a guzzling, lounging, gambling, dog's life. The only alternative to excitement is irritability.”
“We all at certain times in our lives find ourselves broken. True strength is found in picking up the pieces.”
“Intellectual growth should commence at birth and cease only at death”
“There is no value attached to the job, so you try to give your life more meaning. So you have to buy things to attach value to your money. The hole got harder to fill, so you fill the hole with possessions. It became desperate, your search for fulfillment. My life is a cautionary tale”
“Embrace the negative, for within its crusty shell lies a pearl waiting to be discovered.”
“I wanted to be a monk, ... A soldiering monk. Giving up everything you've known in your life to be part of this special unit — that appealed to me. I wanted to start fresh. I joined the French Foreign Legion.”
“A true man's ability to respect others is measured by the ammount of respect that he receives from others.”
“The only religious way to think of death is as part and parcel of life.”
“If you strike a child, take care that you strike it in anger, even at the risk of maiming it for life. A blow in cold blood neither can nor should be forgiven.”
“Life is short. Say what you think without fear. Speak your truth even if it makes you blush. The truth will keep your hands cleaned and your eyes steady when they will encounter the Creator, or when in times or trouble you shall face the Evil. (pio dalcin)”
“Life is short. Say what you think without fear. Speak your truth even if it makes you blush. The truth will keep your hands cleaned and your eyes steady when they will encounter the Creator, or when in times or trouble you shall face the Evil. (pio dalcin)”
“Rest your mind peacefully if today you tried your best to win life's challanges. Even if you lost, pick up your pieces,learn from your failures and believe that tomorrow will be a whole new day”
“That's what you call hanging on for dear life. (Boston) has been tough for us to play all year. It's important for us to get wins now however we can get them. We can't worry about what other teams are doing. What's really important is concentrating on ourselves.”
“Whatever you do in life, echoes thru eternity.”
“It was absolutely the worst scene I've ever seen in my entire life, ... What I have seen so far of Hurricane Katrina's damage looks exactly the same, except for the loss of life. Everything just swept away.”
“Don't order any black things. Rejoice in his memory; and be radiant: leave grief to the children. Wear violet and purple. Be patient with the poor people who will snivel: they don't know; and they think they will live for ever, which makes death a division instead of a bond.”
“I just couldn't make a putt today to save my life. On a golf course like this, its so tough that anything can happen.”
“Except during the nine months before he draws his first breath no man manages his affairs as well as a tree does”
“Why, except as a means of livelihood, a man should desire to act on the stage when he has the whole world to act in, is not clear to me.”
“It's disgusting. I've never eaten such bad food in my life. It's unfortunate because Italy is known for its good food and I've had good Italian food, but I guess they just don't know how to cook for a lot of people.”
“Truth is absolute, no matter what your truth says it is.”
“Ordinary people are easy to spot. They are the ones doing the same things you are. Time to try something different!”
“Famous quotes are as common as the person who said them. What makes them famous it that someone else wrote it down!”
“Do not blame your parents for who you are. They gave you the genes, but you choose how to wear them.”
“Life offers many choices. Like a piano, however, the only good choice is the one where all the notes play together in harmony. Bad choices will result in discord.”
“You will never be less than you are today... However, you are responsible for becoming more than you are today!”
“It is easy to look at someone and see their wrongs. It is another thing entirely to look in the mirror and have the same level of honesty.”
“Time is like a half stick of gum. While you wish you had more, you're still glad you have some to cover up your bad breath.”
“True happiness is Knowing that you will never be complety happy all the time; and accecpting that fact with open hearts and minds.”
“Good attitudes are like fine China. They are nice to have, but pointless unless used.”
“Dream your dreams with your eyes closed, but live your dreams with your eyes open.”
“Familiarity used to breed contempt ..... now it just breeds”
“Choices are what makes life what it is to you,they Make or Break U--NO In BETWENS--U either get it Good or get it Bad but U keep moving."”
“Until a person can say deeply and honestly, "I am what I am today because of the choices I made yesterday," that person cannot say, "I choose otherwise”
“Poems seem to have a life of their own. They tell you when enough is enough.”
“It's one of those choices where, yeah, it's a brave choice, but it could really bring the house down.”
“You get what you give out of life”
“Love is the constant reincarnation of yourself combined with every single person that you meet along the way.”
“We grieve for the loss of life, ... I ask you to redouble your resolve and help your neighbors.”
“A lifetime of happiness? No man could bear it: it would be hell on earth.”
“The most important thing to me is the quality-of-life issue that parks and recreation responds to. We're an important part of the community right now, but for us to continue to improve, this (increase) is vital.”
“In the long run the pessimist may be proved right, but the optimist has a better time on the trip.”
“They have a sort of opportunistic component to their life history pattern that's much more flexible than others.”
“Parents need to be informed and take any food allergy seriously. If my son's death can save one life, then I feel we have done some good.”
“In this world there is always danger for those who are afraid of it.”
“This Parliament's life is likely limited.”
“The only failure is not to try.”
“Death is God's way of saying "You're fired."”
“These are senior citizens that don't want to be bothered at this time of their life with fighting the Florida Legislature, and this is what they are doing on a sunny Saturday.”
“It is so important that we give our children tools in their tool box called life that will help them resolve conflict peacefully and non-violently.”
“Oh Tiber! father Tiber! / To whom the Romans pray, / A Roman's life, a Roman's arms, / Take thou in charge this day!”
“The beauty of grace is that it makes life not fair”
“What'd we lose, five in a row? In all my life, I don't think I've ever been on a team that lost five in a row, so just to get the winning taste back in my mouth is good.”
“If you don’t know where you’re going – it doesn’t matter which road you choose”
“I never lose sight of the fact that just being is fun.”
“I have accomplished many things in life, but hardly any of that glorified God. But now that I've realized how wrong I was if I could help someone change their wicked ways maybe I could accomplish something for the better.”
“Students will use these tools long after they leave school. We are giving them a life skill.”
“Satire lies about literary men while they live and eulogy lies about them when they die.”
“It will improve the area's quality of life.”
“Beauty can be found in the most hideous places; if you remove the typical stereotypes of what beauty is, you will find the true beauty that dwells in everything”
“I should stop myself from dying if a good joke or a good idea occurred to me”
“Woe to the makers of literal translations, who by rendering every word weaken the meaning! It is indeed by so doing that we can say the letter kills and the spirit gives life.”
“You want to talk about the worst week of your life? I was only 26 years old, and I was waiting to see if I had cancer.”
“We never live; we are always in the expectation of living.”
“Player, you can not run plays on a Coach.”
“When a woman stops crying over a man's neglect and infidelity, he should then worry who's drying the tears”
“Everything's fine today, that is our illusion.”
“Why the heart does anything more than beat escapes me.”
“Be more concerned with the people under you than the people over you.”
“We love life, not because we are used to living but because we are used to loving.”
“In life it wasn't what you know, but who you know. I had people who were trying to buy teams and had they bought the teams, I would have gotten to coach because they wanted me to coach. But the people who have the teams hire their friends.”
“I believe life has become more stressful for young, growing children. Kids are growing up in a much more stressed environment. These are multiple gene disorders and, like diabetes, not everyone with the gene gets diabetes. But if they have the genetic vulnerability to become depressed or anxious or obsessive compulsive, it will express itself in the kind of social pressure cooker we are putting our children in.”
“The best way to be boring is to leave nothing out”
“Happiness is only as valid as the value system upon which it rests”
“I've spent half my life here. And they've always given me a lot of space to do what I thought I needed to do. It's been a labor of love.”
“When I was at Providence, I'd feel like every day I was coaching to save my life. As you get older, hopefully you get smarter. I've learned that sometimes less is more.”
“You are not the only influence in your children's life....that is why you MUST BE
the BEST INFLUENCE in your children's life!”
“Of all the days that's in the week / I dearly love but one day - / And that's the day that comes betwixt / A Saturday and Monday.”
“As I went more and more about the country I learned that I had spoken with assurance on a subject I knew little about.”
“Success comes from Within not Without”
“Think of life as a game who goal is to discover it’s rules.”
“My family members are here with me because they're afraid to stay at home. There is no excuse for it. This is just uncalled for. It goes beyond courtesy. It's protection of life.”
“I let more people into my life now. I never really had a chance to tell Tony what he had done for me while he was alive. Now I want the world to know.”
“It's really not fair right now to compare [coaches], ... I had the two best years of my life with Larry. We're going to miss him, but at the same time we're happy to have somebody like Flip who we think can make us better.”
“People will not let you down if you start lift them up”
“All you have to do is be willing to go further then they actually think you would.”
“Why are our days numbered and not, say, lettered?”
“Why are our days numbered and not, say, lettered?”
“You become responsible, forever, for what you have tamed.”
“Life is like a short rope, you can't tie the ends but you can hang yourself easily with it.”
“It's not how long your legs are; it's how fast you pick them up and put them down that counts.”
“The most defying enemy is ourselves because we cannot control our human nature i.e what we were built to do”
“People fail because they are trying hard to change the picture inside the mirror not what inside themselves, to be successful change what is WITHIN not what is WITHOUT.”
“Do not make Recession your Obsession, Just remember to forget it and you’ll be OK”
“life is to be looked at, liked, loved, learnt, and LIVED.”
“As long as you learn from your mistakes you are guaranteed you won't repeat them.”
“P.J.'s a tough kid. He's overcome a lot more than that in his life.”
“The peace loving non-religious man has good cause to worry. It's been my experience that the humblest citizen in all the land, when clad in the armor of a righteous cause, is stronger than all the King's men. Pro-life hypocrites with a Bible in one hand and a gun in the other will kill you.”
“The tragedy of life is not that it ends so soon, but that we wait so long to begin it.”
“The best day of your life is the one on which you decide your life is your own. No apologies or excuses. No one to lean on, rely on, or blame. The gift is yours - it is an amazing journey - and you alone are responsible for the quality of it. This is the day your life really begins.”
“Courage is standing up for something good that you dont belive in, bravery is standing down from what you believed.”
“I create it. I feel it. I seek it. I breathe it. I create life with it. And I spread it. But I shall not steal it. Love.”
“Whether a small piece of sand or a rock
Always drowns the same way,
Miracles are God's mistake by chance
But we wait for one, as they say...”
“Have the courage to be the person you know you are.”
“no one can choose your path for you only your path can be choosen”
“You cannot help another person without simultaneously helping yourself.”
“Nothing is ever as good or bad as it seems.”
“Confidence in ourselves is perhaps the single most important ingredient for leading a life of success and happiness.”
“To live is to look at what life is looking for. To be is to be who isnt being. To loose is to get what your not wantin..... But to win, is to live life and love what you hate.”
“life is tough. but when life is done, it becomes success.
follow your dreams and it will become success!”
“there is 2 paths; the wide one means everything is easy and the narrow one means everything is hard. take the narrow path and it will lead to goodness and love.”
“We all become the sum total of everyone we have ever met that left an impression on us.”
“Dont spend your life thinking about it, Spend your life doing what you've thought about.”
“Theres nothing to ease stress and calm your nerves like a good hard dicking.”
“I really do love a good hard dicking...it totally eases my stress and calms my nerves.”
“Charles Royce has promised preservation of the historic iconic image of the Ocean House with modern amenities and life safety features, but has cautioned that the final product has to remain economically viable.”
“Their are more things in life than to fight for your belifes, but to believe what your fighting for”
“To live in this single moment,
this lightest breath, this softest touch,
to be captured by this smallest, this briefest space of time,
to be fully present, alive, consumed in this instant alone,
this is truly living.”
“Our lives a series of defining moments,
strung together by passing time.
Surrender fully to this moment,
because it is not the moment itself that defines us,
but how we choose to live in it.”
“If you want to change your world, you need to start cultivating good habits”
“I don't want to achieve immortality through my work. I want to achieve it through not dying.”
“Are you a SNIOP? Someone who is Sensitive to the Negative Influence Of Others?”
“The road to negativity begins early with those loving parental words, Be Careful.”
“Love given to you will evaporate like a puddle, unless you are open to absorb it.”
“The Faster you Give, the sooner you get ... but remember it all comes to what you Give”
“If God would have wanted us to live in a permissive society He would have given us Ten Suggestions and not Ten Commandments.”
“She will chase you around for a while but there gonna be one day when she gets tried of running and she gonna move on. At that moment you are going to wish you had let her catch you.”
“Show kindness even to the rudest person... and see what happens!!!”
“If you’re climbing the ladder of life, you go rung by rung, one step at a
time.sometimes you don’t think you’re progressing until you step back and see
how high you’ve really gone.”
“Women are as old as they feel - and men are old when they lose their feelings”
“People ask all the time, 'What's he done with his life?' ... He's enjoyed it.”
“When I'm praying for perseverance and patience, I'm praying for you too, ... Your life -- all our lives -- are going to be different.”
“I am thankful to the Japanese people for each day of my life I will now spend in freedom.”
“If you want people to think well of you, do not speak well of yourself”
“The sole cause of man's unhappiness is that he does not know how to stay quietly in his room”
“One lives in the hope of becoming a memory.”
“It will be the biggest game of my life. Canada will be a lot tougher than the Americans.”
“It was never mine to give up, neither was it yours to take away from me!”
“I take it out in the open and laugh at it.”
“When you are lost look towards the stars they will led you to where you need to go.”
“Life is a gift and all of us who have the capacity must remember that we have the
responsibility to give something back; a small but consistent commitment of time
and caring can make a measurable difference in the world.”
“Rebounds are not about how hard you fall, but how high you bounce back up.”
“Our members build life-long friendships while their working their hearts in our facility. Once the physician-ordered portion of their rehabilitation is over, they don't want to leave; so they keep coming on their own accord.”
“Our national cemeteries are in fact national shrines -- places to memorialize the service of our veterans, our way of life, keeping us free. We intend fully to maintain this cemetery as a national shrine.”
“She was very politicized early on in her life. She was far more politically aware than her husband was at that time when they met. I think he became very sophisticated and very aware.”
“Without courage, wisdom bears no fruit.”
“When desire dies, fear is born.”
“Lucky people are simply those who think continually about what they want and
then attact it into their lives.”
“Our national cemeteries are in fact national shrines -- places to memorialize the service of our veterans, our way of life, keeping us free, ... We intend fully to maintain this cemetery as a national shrine.”
“You are where you are today because you’ve chosen to be there.”
“We cannot all do great things, but we can do small things with great love.”
“Life is a realm of imagination.”
“It's the image Daniel grew up with as a child. He's talked to Jesus all his life and that's how Daniel sees Jesus.”
“A good education is another name for happiness.”
“In fact, the element of play has an important role in my life, and I think that should be the case in the life of every artist. Our life is occupied with playing, whether we play an instrument or a role.”
“What material success does is provide you with the ability to concentrate on other things that really matter. And that is being able to make a difference, not only in your own life, but in other people's lives.”
“Excuse me while I kiss the sky.”
“Not necessarily stoned..but beautiful”
“If I had my choice I would kill every reporter in the world but I am sure we would be getting reports from hell before breakfast.”
“Along the journey we commonly forget its goal”
“The emphasis is back on really good songs. And it's nice to return to our larger than life sound.”
“Whoever does not express his gratitude to people will never be grateful to God.”
“I'm a truth seeker. That's what I do every day on the show - put out the truth. Some people don't like it, they call it sensational, but I say life is sensational.”
“Meditation in God is my capital.
Reason and sound logic are the root of my existence.
Love is the foundation of my existence.
Enthusiasm is the vehicle of my life.
Contemplation of Allah is my companion.
Faith is the source of my power.
Sorrow is my friend.
Knowledge is my weapon.
Patience is my clothing and virtue.
Submission to the Divine Will is my pride.
Truth is my salvation.
Worship is my habit.
And in prayer lies the coolness of my eye and my peace of mind.”
“If all this happened to you what paradigm might you develop? How might that paradigm affect you in terms of your life from that point on? What does this tell you about Abe? There are no failures, only lessons to be learned.”
“It took the place burning down and being rebuilt to have his dreams come to life.”
“Love is the best thing there ever is. There’s no words to describe it. You wouldn’t be able to fall asleep without thinking of the person, all there flaws disappear and its only them, you pass through each day like your floating cause when your in love there’s nothing that can turn you down. You feel as if your flying in the sky, and this time there wouldn’t be a limit .Its like you live each day waiting till you get to see them again. Its similar to a crush that never goes away…”
“Toward the end of his life, one can sense that he was no longer thinking his way into the minds of others, causing them to speak on his behalf, but that he was now speaking for himself.”
“[Viewers get glimpses of Banks' personality on Model , although she admits that in the tense elimination scenes she's playing] a little bit of a character. ... She told me, 'People are going to feel like they know you because you're on TV every single day. This is a whole different life, so get ready for it.' ”
“My prayer is that the greatness ...that she lived will now find a home within us.”
“You just accept the fact that you're going into Hinkle and you're going to have to fight for your life two games in a row on the same day.”
“These are women who, when I was growing up, made a difference for me, ... The first time I saw Diana Ross and the Supremes on the 'Ed Sullivan Show,' it changed my life.”
“How we spend our days is, of course, how we spend our lives.”
“The oceans play a crucial role in sustaining life on earth,”
“Life is like a good book and the only people that know the ending aren't going to spoil it.”
“The lack of perception, doesn't equal non-existence.”
“Life's too short not to show your love or appreciation to someone or something!”
“Do all things with love, passion and dedication!”
“Judge A Person By His Or Her Heart, Not By The Color Of Skin.”
“Talent develops in quiet places, character in the full current of human life.”
“His birth parents literally gave him away at birth to another couple who, during his first year of life, physically and sexually abused him.”
“Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma - which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don't let the noise of other's opinions drown out your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary.”
“I just want to make sure it lasts me the rest of my life so I don't have to return to work.”
“These are women who, when I was growing up, made a difference for me. The first time I saw Diana Ross and the Supremes on the 'Ed Sullivan Show,' it changed my life.”
“Matthew's search for stories of people that he could help led him to an abandoned hospital in New Orleans, ... Inside were beloved pets that families had been forced to leave behind during this evacuation. One man vowed to keep them alive. And Matthew went to help him.”
“This morally irresponsible proposal would give pharmacists the power to potentially terminate a human life, a power that no single individual should have. This authority should not belong with pharmacists, and would put many in an uncomfortable moral position that goes against their own religious beliefs.”
“We shall not be moved. We're here, thousands strong in Yankee Stadium, to say to the world hope lives, prayer lives, love lives.”
“I want to use television not only to entertain, but to help people lead better lives.”
“Oh eyes, no eyes, but fountains fraught with tears; O life, no life, but lively form of death; Oh world, no world, but mass of public wrongs”
“The man who graduates today and stops learning tomorrow is uneducated the day after.”
“The important thing is this: To be able at any moment to sacrifice what we are for what we could become.”
“I am a woman in process. I'm just trying like everybody else. I try to take every conflict, every experience, and learn from it. Life is never dull.”
“Decide today to design and build the ideal relationship in your life. It's up to you.”
“I don't think you ever stop giving. I really don't. I think it's an on-going process. And it's not just about being able to write a check. It's being able to touch somebody's life.”
“What a shame to see that those young people in the prime of their life don't get a chance to see beyond that.”
“Whatever you want in your life, the key to your success is to transform your thinking, emotions and behaviour!”
“I'm proud of the fact that I made my way in life very rigorously. I was a bit too stubborn when it came to certain things, which was unnecessary, like getting independent from and leaving Germany.”
“Make love now, by night and by day, in winter and in summer... You are in the world for that and the rest of life is nothing but vanity, illusion, waste. There is only one science, love, only one riches, love, only one policy, love. To make love is all the law, and the prophets.”
“If we don't change, we don't grow. If we don't grow, we aren't really living.”
“The highest mountain we will ever climb, is the one that shows us who we truly are”
“It is almost systematically to constitute a natural moral law. Nature has no principles. She furnishes us with no reason to believe that human life is to be respected. Nature, in her indifference, makes no difference between right and wrong.”
“I thank fate for having made me born poor. Poverty taught me the true value of the gifts useful to life.”
“It can potentially terminate a human life, and that's my overriding concern. Second to that, unless there is an exception for pharmacists that hold moral or religious objections, then it is bad law.”
“Existence would be intolerable if we were never to dream.”
“Alex (Thomas) has worked hard all his life. He lives in the weight room and never takes a day or a play off.”
“Look at life through the windshield, not the rear-view mirror”
“From Dawn to Decadence: 500 Years of Western Cultural Life,”
“[ABC just announced that it has begun production on] Have No Fear: The Life of Pope Paul II, ... a papal page-turner.”
“Balance, peace, and joy are the fruit of a successful life. It starts with recognizing your talents and finding ways to serve others by using them.”
“I am very intellectual about things so music is mostly a response to life and my ideas and the way things are versus the way things potentially or should be.”
“Life is about the Now - enjoy this moment, it is unique and never to be repeated.”
“The courses I took were very rigorous and demanding, teaching me how to draw from real life. I started to get bored with that mode of expression as I found it to be too repetitive. I was looking to push myself to do something different and abstract art seemed to be the perfect outlet for that.”
“I'm living on things that excite me, be they pastry, or lobster, or love.”
“Live your life...Not your age”
“Love is the gentle snow of mankind, lying soft where it touches,
remembered when it is gone...”
“Obstacles aren't road blocks, they're stepping stones.”
“I was thinking about that, about the journeys in the film, journey to the roots, journey to the heart. We're all on journeys.”
“Effective communicators are the most powerful people in the world.”
“Effective communicators are the most powerful people in the world.”
“The ability to think is your most treasured asset.”
“Trust is the foundation on which successful relationships are built.”
“Present-moment awareness is essential to life-long success.”
“I've never been happier in my life. I've got my wife back.”
“I have no regrets in my life. I think that everything happens to you for a reason. The hard times that you go through build character, making you a much stronger person.”
“Life is about climbing the steps with no foundation; we need to lay it as we go!”
“When we set such low standards for ourselves mediocrity seems like an acheivement. But what will we truly learn from that?”
“The show basically charts life. Youthful optimism, brash idealism, first love, setbacks, relationships, the drive to keep on improving one's self and life, ending on an optimistic note for the future. There is no definite script of the show. Instead we follow musical paths.”
“They can feel beautiful for a night for once in their life.”
“When it looked like the sun wasn't going to shine any more, there's a rainbow in the clouds,”
“When you're travelling, you are what you are right there and then. People don't have your past to hold against you. No yesterdays on the road.”
“Your life is your message to the world. Make it inspiring.”
“The greater the challenge, the greater the glory.”
“These awards provide an opportunity for children to thank the adults that have had a positive impact on their life.”
“Don't kill unless your ready to die”
“Emotion is Energy in Motion.”
“We must infuse our lives with art. Our national leaders must be informed that we want them to use our taxes to support street theatre in order to oppose street gangs. We should have a well-supported regional theatre in order to oppose regionalism and”
“It's become a fact of life, especially if you're in a public place such as a store. A lot of people just don't care if they're being obnoxious in public.”
“Life leads to consciousness”
“That's a recipe for a Venice, ... on life support.”
“There can be nothing exclusive about substantial art. It comes directly out of the heart of the experience of life and thinking about life and living life.”
“Consciousness is in everything just as everything is in consciousness”
“The only certainty is that there is consciousness”
“I am always talking about the human condition and about American society in particular: what it is like to be human, what makes us weep, what makes us fall and stumble and somehow rise and go on from darkness into darkness and that darkness carpeted”
“Education and knowledge should not be the property of an elitist club greedily hoarding its
wealth, but a free and open establishment designed for the benefit and progress of the whole of
mankind.”
“Lift up your eyes upon. This day breaking for you. Give birth again. To the dream.”
“We have been deeply conditioned to immediately associate the word ‘conspiracy’ with the
word ‘theory’ yet if one is to analyze the nature of what a conspiracy really is it suddenly
becomes easy to see a number of them happening all around us, almost every day.”
“No theory should ever be placed in a position where it is no longer open for
debate”
“Could the pyramids have actually been cast instead of built by
teams of men maneuvering hewn blocks?”
“When they talk of ghosts of the dead who wander in the night with things still undone in life, they approximate my subjective experience of this life.”
“SUCCESS is a journey, not a destination. Make your life a fun-filled, joyous, and happy journey lived with passion.”
“Alone, all alone Nobody, but nobody Can make it out here alone”
“Law of Increase: Whatever you are truly grateful for and appreciate will increase in your life.”
“You get to choose to live a boring, average, fun, exciting, blissful, giving and/or magnificent life. What do you choose?”
“I live my life in my own way and others are inspired to do the same.”
“A life is a life is a life.”
“I prefer to LIVE my Ideal Life rather than focus on making a living.”
“I love to see a young girl go out and grab the world by the lapels. Life's a bitch. You've got to go out and kick ass.”
“How would you like to be forced all the days of your life to sit beside a stinking, stupid wino every morning at breakfast?”
“Gods intention for mankind was not to wait on earth in order to get to heaven, but to connect with Him in order to bring heaven to earth.”
“Life is a JOURNEY. So. Might as well make it FUN! Assume you won't have a second chance. So...do it NOW. Do what you LOVE. Passionately.”
“The difference between a Good day and a Bad day has less to do with the circumstances than the power we have over our thoughts.”
“Me fail english? Thats unpossible.”
“One thing leads to another and another ...and there goes your life.”
“To live a RICH and HAPPY LIFE, all you have to do is LIVE a Rich and Happy LIFE.”
“Imagine a thousand more such daily intrusions in your life, every hour and minute of every day, and you can grasp the source of this paranoia, this anger that could consume me at any moment if I lost control.”
“An enlightening project is to document your LIFE TIMELINE, just like famous people. List by year, the highlights of your life. Revealing.”
“Live the life you would like to inspire others to live. A life of kindness. Joy. Doing what you love with passion. Excitement. Fun.”
“She really did fight for her life. Her fingernails dug into her neck trying to fight it off.”
“It's not action-sci-fi as it's an internally relationship-driven show. The great thing about life post-Star Trek is we do have this incredible fan base where not only is the work more consistent but they loyally tune into everything we do. It has made a huge difference and it's frankly a lot of fun.”
“There is a fundamental difference between life and living, all of us have life, but we must purpose to live.”
“We prize wisdom, not just being right. Our children really get that. They get a sense of life bigger than themselves.”
“LIFE TIP: You get to choose to live a boring, average, fun, exciting, blissful, giving and/or magnificent life. What do you choose?”
“If you change your thinking, you change your life.”
“The purpose of art is not a rarified, intellectual distillate it is life, intensified,
brilliant life.”
“Life wasn't meant to be easy. If it was we wouldn't really be living.”
“I do not claim to have the answers. All I claim to have is an open mind that is willing to adapt to new information as it becomes available.”
“It would say, if you're a convicted sex offender and are on the registry, you are banned for life from living in the 1,000-foot safety zone of a school (or day care center).”
“I'm definitely one of those who embraces life to the fullest. So there I was, I had a record and I was touring the world. I was giving in to a lot of the temptations that come with that.”
“One man cannot do right in one department of life whilst he is occupied in doing
wrong in any other department. Life is one indivisible whole.”
“Perhaps travel cannot prevent bigotry, but by demonstrating that all peoples cry, laugh, eat, worry, and die, it can introduce the idea that if we try and understand each other, we may even become friends.”
“I don't think it's bad for college students to have credit cards. They are a fact of life and it's naïve to think they won't (have the cards).”
“The future is a forward escape into the past”
“We must separate ourselves from separation.”
“The open mind is key to true understanding.”
“Everything is unusal, the rest of life is sleep and committee meetings”
“We are the stars way of exploring the stars”
“I don't think it's bad for college students to have credit cards. They are a fact of life and it's naïve to think they won't (have the cards),”
“Once again, I entered my solitary room and said-
"So hello room!, How have you been?"
And heard it answer-
"So welcome home!, I have been lonely!"”
“No man was every so completely skilled in the conduct of life, as not to receive new information from age and experience”
“Life itself is a terminal condition.”
“Everything is unusal, the rest of life is sleep and committee meetings”
“Do not fear that dawn will never come, for there has never been a night that dawn had not come”
“My dad's very creative. I am the proof.”
“Insults from imbeciles are compliments.”
“The struggle continues until it suddenly hits you, the greatest strugle of all, is the struggle within you.”
“NOW IF A PICTURES WORTH A THOUSAND WORDS I PAINTED A THOUSAND PICTURES”
“Quality of life is important to have ... we want to make them feel at home even though they can't get there yet. [The patients] are sent from their parent command, away from their families ... we want to make them as comfortable as we can while they are here.”
“I hold this as a rule of life: too much of anything is bad.”
“This I consider to be a valuable principle in life: Do no thing in excess.”
“We have no higher life that is really apart from other people. It is by imagining them that our personality is built up; to be without the power of imagining them is to be a low-grade idiot.”
““A 'FRIEND' IS NOT A 'FRIEND' UNTIL THEY KNOW WHERE YOU HURT• UNTIL THEY KNOW HOW TO STOMP YOUR FACE INTO THE DIRT• BUT IF THIS 'FRIEND' KNOWS THIS, AND DOESN'T USE IT• THAN HE IS A '†RU∑ FRIEND' WITHOUT ANY CONFUSION””
“Change is inevitable. What is also inevitable is failure for those who refuse to change.”
“The majority of our life is day to day. We deal with things as they happen.”
“I am so clever that sometimes I don't understand a single word of what I am saying.”
“Life is hard for everyone. That's why there's such a nice reward at the end of it.”
“I do not ask, O Lord, that life may be a pleasant road.”
“I'm never wrong. But the one time I was wrong, I was RIGHT that I was wrong. – attributed to 'Don'”
“Our lifestyle has always been cowboy. We were raised that way as a way of life.”
“Learn from the past. Live in the present. Create your future.”
“I am not a slave to variety.”
“I spent a special part of my life (in Macon), ... It was my early 20s. It was the '70s. We'd signed to Capricorn and we were touring with all our heroes. I mean, I tell my kids about an almost idyllic scene that was there ... It was a fertile time.”
“What changes your life is not learning more. What changes your life is making
decisions and using your personal power and taking action.”
“There have been too many things that have happened in my life to look at
anything as coincidence.”
“If you run out of petroleum, which we will, these new products will step in. So life as you know it will go on, and we'll be better off for it.”
“I have always wanted to know what I couldnt see, I always wanted to know what I still cannot see, yet I still ask myself what is that I can see that I dont need to see, but like they say seeing is believing but it also can be deceiving, so is seeing really that important for me.”
“Most of the time it takes so Long to Feel, that we hardly get time to Feel it for Long...!”
“We put our life blood into that plan, and to have the rug pulled out from under you ....”
“Asking for forgiveness is easier than asking for permission.”
“Looking out the backside of a moving vehicle is so much more epic than looking out the front, but needless to say, both are great because it reminds me that I am in the Now.”
“Jesus Christ was 100% aware of God the Father. Therefore, awareness is key!”
“Enlightenment means taking full responsibility for your life.”
“The mental flames that burn Mystery are purifying.”
“The fall of man is caused by the seductiveness of Inspiration, Pleasure, Natural Beauty, Material Instinct and their refusal too cooperate with their counterparts, Imagination, Inelligence, Passion, and Instinct.”
“The body is wounded by the mind that inflicts damage unto itself.”
“A man must fill his life with meaning, meaning is not automatically given to life.
It is hard work to fill one's life with meaning.”
“Eternity is best conceived if thought of as a joining of human and divine consciousness. Eternity and time should be thought of without any connections. Therefore, it is understood that eternity, not as immeasurable time, is a mode of being of the higher divine consciousness.”
“Man is on the verge of reuniting it's scattered Mind, Body, and Soul...soon to be rehumanizing both Nature and it's alienated divinity. The outcome is the harmony of Man, Nature, and God as One.”
“When life threw me some curve balls, like losing my homes and bankruptcy, I went through a lot of letting go and reexamining myself. Those events gave me my life.”
“Take your life in your own hands and what happens? A terrible thing: no one is
to blame.”
“We were all concerned. We would tell him. But he enjoyed life. He enjoyed the size he was. That's who he was.”
“That's all nonviolence is - organized love.”
“The greatest risk is the risk of riskless living.”
“All human actions have one or more of these seven causes: chance, nature, compulsions, habit, reason, passion and desire.”
“Puck enjoyed life and enjoyed the size he was. That's who he was.”
“All my life I've been waiting for this, and now it can happen. A Williams is going to win.”
“Obviously they lied to medical personnel that could have saved Martin's life.”
“No great genius has ever existed without some touch of madness.”
“If ignorance is bliss than how come I am so happy?”
“Once we Live for Love we will then have Love for Life.”
“LIFE is all about sequence of Events although....Every event is a successor as well as Predecessor of another one”
“Life consists in penetrating the unknown, and fashioning our actions in accord
with the new knowledge thus acquired.”
“You cannot fail without your consent. You cannot succeed without your participation.”
“Depression. That's easy to fix.”
“WHY YOU DO, is more important than WHAT YOU DO.”
“We really refocused ourselves. I didn't want to live my life in a dark shadow all of the time.”
“Excellence is an art won by training and habituation. We do not act rightly because we have virtue or excellence, but we rather have those because we have acted rightly. We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act but a habit.”
“I regard these allegations against me very seriously as I abhor any form of abuse against women. Throughout my life, in line with the policies of my organization, the ANC, I have fought against all forms of violence and abuse against women.”
“He who gains a victory over other men is strong; but he who gains a victory over himself is all powerful.”
“We always produced competitive teams and good people. The student-athletes move on to the next step of life and do quite well. They understand teamwork, they understand hard work, and turn into good people. I think we accomplished what the goals of those athletic programs are.”
“People may very well choose to trade off years of their life, or the possibility of disease or injury, in exchange for the current pleasure, excitement, or stress relief they get (from food),”
“We try to keep our lives above the raging waters of turbulance... We try to swim frantically out of this whirlpool of frustration and emotional anguish, blameless chains reign over our nameless game of survival and pain. We must work to gain, we must toil and train, for I promise the sun will shine again. The waters will subside, and life will abide to the brightest of times. God bless the subconscious mind!”
“I'm a very lucky player. In three years my life has changed. I was on the bench in the second division and step by step, year after year, I worked and I know where I want to be and I enjoy my life. I think this is the best year of my life.”
“Accelerating the growth in life sciences is key to our strategy to becoming a faster-growing, more profitable, less cyclical company.”
“You live only once... Make it a great one.”
“Because of deep love, one is courageous. Because of frugality, one is generous. Because of not daring to be ahead of the world, one becomes the leader of the world.”
““Sometimes I try reading books upside-down because I think, thats what it would be like if I couldn’t Read at all.””
“Nothing in the world is as fair as your stomach , when it's enough , it's enough (Quoted from my dad )”
“You must give a piece of yourself to gain a bigger piece of yourself.”
“I have three precious things which I hold fast and prize. The first is gentleness; the second is frugality; the third is humility, which keeps me from putting myself before others. Be gentle and you can be bold; be frugal and you can be liberal; avoid putting yourself before others and you can become a leader among men.”
“It isn't lonely to be alone, nor is it lonely to be lost. But it is, to know, that you love yourself lesser than anyone else."”
“Only at loss will you know gain.”
“Either everyone is right , or everyone is wrong. Either no one is right or no one is wrong.”
“In life, Happiness is not about having 'more' , but knowing that its 'more' than enough.”
“Life is meaningless without something to fight for and we are always fighting for something wether we know it or not”
“The subject lived a divided life between a professed image and the indecencies of tawdry personal secrets. Eventually, when events threatened to expose the charade, the subject chose to avoid the consequences of reality by committing suicide.”
“The eyes say many different things without having to verbally say anything at all.”
“God have mercy upon those﻿ who do not know the divine truth within themselves.”
“Stick a fork in me, I'm DONE!”
“He who obtains has little. He who scatters has much.”
“Student life means a lot more than having a social space and a place to eat, ... This building is about 80,000 square feet geared toward student use and participation.”
“A TRUE BITCH HOLDS HER OWN!!!!!!!”
“Life as a coach is full of frustrations.”
“Eros will have naked bodies; Friendship naked personalities.”
“Never fear the unexpected...”
“We all fall down, the difference is in how we get ourselves up, and go on with life after we fall down.”
“Accelerating the growth in life sciences is key to our strategy to becoming a faster-growing, more profitable, less cyclical company,”
“She grew up. She learned life really is not fair all the time.”
“You may feel like dwelling on your limits or your fears. Don't do it. A perfect
prescription for a squandered, unfulfilled life is to accommodate selfdefeating
feelings while undercutting your finest, most productive ones.”
“In retrospect, I've been gay my entire life. It just takes some time to examine yourself and come to realize the truth.”
“One life stamps and influences another, which in turn stamps and influences
another, on and on, until the soul of human experience breathes on in generations
we'll never even meet.”
“Someone of means, who for his entire life was able to appreciate the value of freedom, and enjoy his success, is now having his life in many respects controlled by mid-level penal officials.”
“The longest journey through life, is down the path that leads us Home.”
“She was made a scapegoat for a deficient child-placement system. Now she can get on with her life.”
“If the only wishes you get on your birthday are in the form of auto generated mails, then it is time to seriously relook at your life.”
“Life does not require us to make good; it asks only that we give our best at each
level of experience.”
“Some times in this path of life you need to walk alone to find yourself before you can walk it with anyone else.”
“From that first step we take as a child we continue to walk everyday of our lives. The day we stop walking is the day its all over!”
“Its who you know you are on the inside that most define the person you are. What one most understand is that you most show the world what is on the inside, So they can see the true you!”
“I love the market, it is my work, my play and my life.”
“Character develops itself in the stream of life.”
“Ships at a distance have every man's wish on board. For some they come in with the tide. For others they sail forever on the horizon, never out of sight, never landing, until the Watcher turns his eyes away in resignation, his dreams mocked to death by Time. That is the life of men. Now, women forget all those things they don't want to remember, and remember everything they don't want to forget. The dream is the truth. They then act and do things accordingly.”
“...And one day we will die/And our ashes will fly/From the aeroplane over the sea/But for now we are young/Let us lay in the sun/And count every beautiful thing we can see/Love to be/
In the arms of all I'm keeping here with me...”
“Our goal is for all of our customers to be customers for life. Our Worry-Free Guarantee is the tool we use to tell them so.”
“Those who have a 'why' to live, can bear with almost any 'how.'”
““If good habits are fatty unhealthy food, we’ll be eating them every single second, if good habits were cigarettes, we’ll be smoking all day long, if good habits are drinking and addiction, we will love to buy alcohol and drugs and even distribute them and if good habits lead to adultery, violence, wars and misery, we’ll be the first to seed them ... but good habits are not any of these ... so no one bother.””
“For every ACTION in life there is a RE Action and for every NO ACTION there is NO ATTRACTION to LOVE, HAPPINESS and SUCCESS in your LIFE”
“The life that conquers is the life that moves with a steady resolution and
persistence toward a predetermined goal. Those who succeed are those who have
thoroughly learned the immense importance of planning in life, and the tragic
brevity of time”
“Life…can only be understood backwards…”
“Be an explorer...read, surf the internet, visit customers, enjoy arts, watch children play...do anything to prevent yourself from becoming a prisoner of your knowledge, experience, and current view of the world.”
“If you want a friend, look first to see if you are willing to be one.”
“We know that no one has lost his life, which is good news -- the objective today is immediate response. That's medical assessment, food, water, ice and communications -- making contact with local officials and reestablishing continuity of government.”
“Life is so complete that even when knocked on our backs, we have the best view of the stars.”
“Wild roses have fragile blossoms; they may not have the overpowering beauty of their cultivated cousins, but they possess a subtle headiness and hidden attributes, that to the careful gardener may come shining through in fleeting moments.”
“The only thing that does not change, is change itself.”
“The only thing that does not change, is change itself.”
“We are like these children, holding a marble in their left hand and not letting it go until they are sure that the swap is in their right hand: we would like to have a new life but without losing the former life. We refuse the moment of passage, the moment of the empty hand.”
“I've never seen two kids control a game so much in my life.”
“If you can live by the best inside yourself, the worst outside yourself will crumble at your feet.”
“There's lots of opportunities out there in life, but if you never put yourself out on
a limb and take chances you'll never dare to be great at anything.”
“You are the size of your worrries”
“Stalbet in Israel - some Israeli people don't go to work...! they go to work...”
“Practice help not hate and you shall have.”
“Life is as tedious as a twice-told tale.”
“We're trying to get the Office of Fraternity and Sorority Life to buy a bunch of them and distribute them. We're advocating them because they're visible, and fraternities can immediately implement them. They also show the University community that fraternity brothers are working to ensure the safety of their guests.”
“a wake-up call that reminds us to enjoy life for what it is. That's what I'm doing on both a conscious and subconscious level.”
“If you dream to be great, be great in your action..Mere dreaming would land you up nowhere but on your bed..”
“My basic belief is you need to ride the horse in the direction that it's going,”
“There is a wonderful mythical law of nature that the three things we crave most
in life happiness, freedom and peace of mind are always attained by giving them
to someone else.”
“It basically describes a day in the life of Charlie Brown. The show takes the form of the comic strip, with its separate frames and short vignettes.”
“I am serious, so I laugh a lot. You need to laugh. You don't laugh enough. I don't trust anyone who doesn't laugh.”
“The horizon leans forward, offering you space to place new steps of change.”
“I believe God is managing affairs and that He doesn't need any advice from me. With God in charge, I believe everything will work out for the best in the end. So what is there to worry about.”
“But music can save your life sometimes. It probably saved me from working in a bank or something. That's a kind of salvation right there.”
“The economic and technological triumphs of the past few years have not solved as many problems as we thought they would, and, in fact, have brought us new problems we did not foresee”
“Life is ours to be spent, not to be saved.”
“The sacrifice which causes sorrow to the doer of the sacrifice is no sacrifice. Real sacrifice lightens the mind of the doer and gives him a sense of peace and joy. The Buddha gave up the pleasures of life because they had become painful to him.”
“Zurich has always been very much a non-life story. But it's interesting to see ... the focus turning toward the life business and Farmers now that premiums are under pressure in the United States.”
“The good man is the friend of all living things.”
“I have tried lately to read Shakespeare, and found it so intolerably dull that it nauseated me.”
“The highest possible stage in moral culture is when we recognize that we ought to control our thoughts.”
“An American Monkey after getting drunk on Brandy would never touch it again, and thus is much wiser than most men”
“I was a young man with uninformed ideas. I threw out queries, suggestions, wondering all the time over everything; and to my astonishment the ideas took like wildfire. People made a religion of them.”
“Monotony is the law of nature. Look at the monotonous manner in which the sun rises. The monotony of necessary occupation is exhilarating and life giving.”
“True respect must be earned, not demanded”
“A ONE PARTY SYSTEM OF GOVERMENT HAS NO CHECKS AND BALANCES,THEN GREED AND CORRUPTION IS INEVITABLE.”
“If you give up, you will never know what you could have acheived”
“Just because one person hurts you, it doesn't mean everyone else will too.”
“One man cannot do right in one department of life whilst he is occupied in doing wrong in any other departments. Life is one indivisible whole.”
“As a stone tumbled in coarse reality,
constantly worn as it is refined,
adversity, it's true beauty shows.
So it is by trial we find,
all that we are capable of, the strength which lies beneath.”
“The painting has a life of its own.”
“This is my sixth series, and I'm burned out wondering if a show is going to change my life. Don't get me wrong, I love when people recognize my work. But I've given up worrying about whether it'll be seen by two people or two million or 22 million.”
“As far as I know, you only get one shot at this life. It only goes round once and time is precious. When I'm not working, you'd better spend that time with someone important.”
“It does really affect you seeing him like this without life,”
“If Christians would really live according to the teachings of Christ, as found in the Bible, all of India would be Christian today.”
“Education is a particularly powerful factor in both life expectancy and health, and we're not quite sure why.”
“I live on Earth at present, and I don't know what I am. I know that I am not a category. I am not a thing — a noun. I seem to be a verb, an evolutionary process — an integral function of the universe.”
“We cannot put off living until we're ready. Life is fired at us point blank.”
“Life is a game. Business is a game. If you are not having fun, you are in the wrong game or have to change your attitude.”
“The U.S. is falling behind other nations in gains in life expectancy at older ages although we are not sure why.”
“We believe this may suggest that women with early life stress have an enhanced risk of developing drug addiction, as well as eating disorders.”
“While We Are Trying To Teach Our Children Everything About Life
Our Kids Taught Us What Life Is All About.”
“You want an elixir for life's drama? Laugh!”
“In the 1980s, life expectancy was increasing and the best data that we had suggested that for every increased year of life expectancy, a greater fraction was disabled life expectancy. That led to a pessimistic perception that what we would see was a piling up of chronic illness and related disability, that medical science could extend life but it couldn't prevent disability or cure it.”
“Living life to to the fullest comes when turn your passion into your lifestyle.”
“Lifestyle freedom is the ability to do what you want to do,when you want to do it and with whom you want to do it with for however long you want to do it.”
“Faith doesn't make sense; that's why it makes miracles.”
“Where There Is A Will There Is An A”
“Trying to suppress one's opinion is like trying to hold back the entire ocean with a single dam.”
“I've liked catching my whole life — that's what I've done. This year, being the number one pitcher, it's fun having that position. … I was very excited about coming in to pitch. I like being a team leader, and I like being victorious, I guess you could say. Being that important person works for me.”
“The reason people struggle in life is because they prefer it to finding an easier way.”
“We have only thing in life to master. That is ...to master the living of our life.”
“These results differ somewhat from our previous study conducted with male rats. Early life stress produces a greater increase in cocaine self-administration in female versus male rats.”
“True Love asks nothing in exchange”
“Pain is God's way of saying, 'are you paying attention?'”
“The world that we must seek is a world in which the creative spirit is alive, in which life is an adventure full of joy and hope, based rather upon the impulse to construct than upon the desire to retain what we possess or to seize what is possessed by others.”
“When a man begins to understand himself he begins to live. When he begins to
live he begins to understand his fellow men.”
“The abundant life does not come to those who have had a lot of obstacles
removed from their path by others. It develops from within and is rooted in
strong mental and moral fiber.”
“I believe that we are more 'awake' and 'aware' when we are asleep, than when we are 'aware' that we are 'awake'.”
“The only choice that we lack is the choice to choose.”
“Human diversity makes tolerance more than a virtue; it makes it a requirement for survival. Celebrations of Life, 1981”
“Your words predict your harvest, because they are the seeds
that you for your future.”
“Words are faith vehicles to take you to your promise land.”
“Strange is our situation here upon earth. Each of us comes for a short visit, not
knowing why, yet sometimes seeming to divine a purpose. From the standpoint
of daily life, however, there is one thing we do know that man is here for the sake
of other men.”
“Who shall bear the heavier blame,
When remorse the twain enthralls,
She, who for the asking, falls,
He who, asking, brings to shame?”
“The death of a parent is rarely expected and never accepted.”
“The most important day of your life is your birthday, because your birth certificate gives you the right to be a champion.”
“The highest use of capital is not to make more money, but to make money do more for the betterment of life.”
“Decision plus action = results.”
“Recovery is a miracle. It lasts for a life time.”
“You should always draw your conclusions in pencil - so as to be easily erased.”
“She places in this young man all the desire and all the hope that she yearns for in her life, which finally turns out to be an imaginary life, but her imagination makes her really feel something for him.”
“It would be nice for the first person in line to tell the third person that the second person just stepped on a land mine.”
“On Father's Day 2001, the mayor and I attended the funerals of three brave fire-fighters lost in the line of duty. I couldn't help thinking, as we were winding down our terms of office, that it was one of the saddest days I could remember, not knowing my life and the lives of those around me would change forever very soon.”
“You must treat everyday like a present and open it with great expectation.”
“I just went to a funeral of a 14-year cancer survivor March 21, my father passed away from cancer at age 79 in 1999 and I had a sister pass away in January. Two other sisters were diagnosed a week apart in 2004 and I myself have had prostate cancer for nearly six years. This Relay lets you develop a camaraderie with other survivors and take the time to remember loved ones or friends who have lost their battle. It also celebrates life.”
“You must decide to develop personal success habits on a daily basis that will empower you to break those defaults that were cemented in you during childhood.”
“Doing fine...Doing fine... Life is as a rose pedal floating in the wind. A daisy caught up in the solitude of an empty plain. Terret syndrome to a rather quite, lonesome, and innocent child. Oh yes. Doing fine...
~Justin D. Whitehead”
“There is the understanding of the music and culture of the area. The band has studied the idea of the jazz funeral procession and how New Orleans residents use that as a time of mourning and a celebration of life.”
“Different men seek after happiness in different ways and by different means, and so make for themselves different modes of life and forms of government.”
“POSITIVE THOUGHTS MAKE YOU POSITIVE; NEGATIVE THOUGHTS MAKE YOU NEGATIVE.”
“No question it has been a challenging week. But it's a reminder to us all that life in the NFL doesn't get quieter when you have some success.”
“If the bridge to your past is burned behind you, then you have no choice but to travel the path into a successful future.”
“Choosing success over failure is YOUR decision!”
“When you have a cement commitment behind your dreams,nothing will stop you.”
“Each day is the beginning and the ending of my life.”
“Those who educate children well are more to be honored than they who produce them; for these only gave them life, those the art of living well.”
“Without friends, no one would want to live, even if he had all other goods.”
“One doesn't live long enough to learn only from one's own mistakes—therefore learn from the mistakes and successes of others”
“Without friends no one would choose to live.”
“I asked him about it when we were together a couple of weeks ago. He's always been apprehensive, having been a bridesmaid all these years. He really didn't want to tip his hand. He was kind of cautious. But I asked him, 'Harry, how would you feel if they finally came to their senses and elected you?' He said it would be one of the proudest days of his life.”
“When everyone else says it's impossible and you'll fail, your personal commitment provides another voice that says you will persevere and win.”
“Few things in life have as much power as commitment.”
“We want to recognize the extraordinary achievements and life-saving efforts of these firefighters.”
“Don't let negative people determine your level of success.”
“Some people say they could never work with their spouses. We have a passionate life that we love sharing. But a lot of people would be surprised by how much we don?t interact at work.”
“I asked him about it when we were together a couple of weeks ago. He's always been apprehensive, having been a bridesmaid all these years. He really didn't want to tip his hand. But I asked him, 'Harry, how would you feel if they finally came to their senses and elected you?' He said it would be one of the proudest days of his life.”
“Teachers who educate children deserve more honor than parents who merely gave birth; for bare life is furnished by the one, the other ensures a good life”
“Men create gods after their own image, not only with regard to their form but with regard to their mode of life.”
“The wise man does not expose himself needlessly to danger, since there are few things for which he cares sufficiently; but he is willing, in great crises, to give even his life - knowing that under certain conditions it is not worth-while to live”
“It's great to remind yourself where it all began, ... My life has been like a magic carpet ride ever since.”
“The real tragedy of the poor is the poverty of their aspirations”
“The prophetic statute of the man consists too of the fact that he is a predominantly religious being, but the path he has chosen to define himself as homo religioso is as alien to him as possible.”
“No life can be compared to another Life unless both refer to Death! Even if a Life is different from another Life, it exists, as Life, only by referring to Death, because all other Lives it would refer to finally lead to the last referent which is a Life having as reference: Death! This is why I said the all the shine of Life consists of Death, as the shine of Death consists of Life.”
“None of these medications cure the disease or give the patient a normal life back,”
“States with a life only policy do fairly well economically.”
“You can impact someone's LIFE if they can Listen, Imagine, Feel and Experience what you tell them.”
“I was glad I did, except when I was wandering around in my real life with this big red Afro. I looked like Ronald McDonald.”
“If you have been negatively labeled, I want you to tear that label off of you right now. A label is a lie! The miracle inside of you is larger than any label on the outside.”
“We cannot imagine Life without Death, because the entire Life rests on Death, otherwise it wouldn’t exist.”
“Let your heart out of its cage. Release your heart to dream about an unimaginable future.”
“Where do we people go if not towards the perfection of our own illusion?”
“It's been a life-changing experience for a lot of people,”
“Living a life that in fact lives them, as well as death dies them every moment since the triumphal birth in order to die.”
“Could we talk about a world without opposites? We certainly can’t, just as well as we couldn’t talk about a world without paradoxes, precisely because we are all of this. If we were not a paradox, than our world either wouldn’t be paradoxical.”
“Failures are not supposed to wipe you out; they're tests to help discover who you are.”
“Upon a life I did not live,
Upon a death I did not die,
Another's life, Another's death,
I stake my whole eternity.”
“say thanks for everything that u have. and u will found that u are the best”
“Nothing defines the quality of life in a community more clearly than people who regard themselves, or whom the consensus chooses to regard, as mentally unwell.”
“How would this world be if there was not God? The answer is simple: it would become itself God.”
“Remain open - there's something bigger than you know going on here.”
“Feel the pain before been hit.”
“Where there is a sound of death, there begins a life of some worth.”
“Lie, not for saving the truth, but for saving a true person”
“There is no say that there is no way.”
“Compare with those who are superior. Tease not those who are inferior.”
“I experience growth through exercising my power and potential.”
“Man’s life is knowledge and that’s all. If the Man didn’t knew life he didn’t exist.”
“Your dream will change your daily actions and take you to places that you have never seen or considered before.”
“Your ultimate success is always hidden by problems. In solving them, you acquire the skills that you need to be a leader.”
“Ask for what you want, don't wait for what you get, for you may never get what you need.”
“Ask yourself, “What can I do today to improve my daily championship action steps that will ultimately lead to the
achievement of my true purpose?””
“Just as the butterfly must struggle to shed its cocoon we all have to struggle into success.”
“When we don't have struggles or obstacles to overcome, we become complacent, lazy and passive.”
“My life journey challenges me to be better than I realized.”
“I walk the walk of success, for this is who I am.”
“Life brings along hardships and pain but the one who faces them with boldness and courage will find the eternal light that each and everyone is looking for.”
“There's nothing like a little rain to bring people together.”
“"A happy marriage has in it all the pleasures of friendships, all the enjoyment of sense and reason - and indeed all the sweets of life.”
“Man on Wire”
“My darkest times are the seasons that will manifest the depth of my greatness*”
“I am a champion palm tree! I know I can sustain the hurricanes in life, because I paid the price and my roots are down deep.”
“The most important season for a seed is the rain. Without it, the seed will wither and die. Your tears are the rain that will breathe life into the seed of greatness in your heart.”
“If hope didn't exist, neither would I”
“If hope didn't exist, neither would I”
“It was from an old friend who … thought he was dying. Anyway, he said, Life and death issues don't come along that often, thank God, so don't treat everything like it's life or death. Go easier.”
“God will give you a season that will challenge you through emotional times to develop the wings of faith-filled champion.”
“Your fruits in your life are solely based upon the roots that have been developed by the seeds that you have planted.”
“If your tattoos could remember and speak why they were conceived what would they say? Moreover, would their purpose be fulfilled in the future or forgotten as your road of life experience transitions like a pendulum?”
“If your tattoos could remember and speak why they were conceived what would they say? Moreover, would their purpose be fulfilled in the future or forgotten as your road of life experience transitions like a pendulum?”
“I pledge allegiance to the Christian flag, and to the Savior, for whose Kingdom it stands, one Savior, crucified, risen, and coming again, with life and liberty for all who believe”
“A man thirty years old, I said to myself, should have his field of life all ploughed, and his planting well done; for after that it is summer time.”
“Folk music is really great music because it?s real life, it tells real stories. These are New Hampshire stories that we?re going to hear. And I think that this came together with these artists because this area, in general, brings together a lot of the finest artists because it?s such a beautiful area. The city is alive. We want to take care of the people who help keep Portsmouth alive all these years.”
“Extinguish the negative perception of pain out of your life. Pain is your rain. Without the “pain rain”, you’re not going to have the nutrients needed to feed the seed that will produce the harvest and manifest your championship life.”
“Are you allowing the darkness in your life to feed you or infuriate you?”
“A birthday:—and now a day that rose
With much of hope, with meaning rife—
A thoughtful day from dawn to close:
The middle day of human life.”
“There's always an explanation but you don't always need to know it.”
“The birthday of my life
Is come, my love is come to me.”
“Champions have a cement commitment. Is your commitment built on sand or on cement?”
“I will regret for the rest of my life that I did not just call in sick. My decision to work through the pain and exhaustion set this whole nightmare into motion.”
“Grow old along with me!
The best is yet to be, the last of life, for which the first was made.”
“It was a great positive force in my life. It's a good family sport. It's what we call the game of life. The way you conduct yourself on the field is probably a good way to tell how you conduct yourself off the field.”
“There is no such thing as normal. There is no such thing as prefection.They are just unrealistic dreaming.”
“One day I may be meeting you and hearing how you've changed your life by saying, 'Farewell to Fat'.”
“True giving up isn't not doing anything.
Its not wanting to.”
“Human life consists in mutual service. No grief, pain, misfortune, or ''broken heart,'' is excuse for cutting off one's life while any power of service remains. But when all usefulness is over, when one is assured of an unavoidable and imminent death, it is the simplest of human rights to choose a quick and easy death in place of a slow and horrible one.”
“People try to do great things so they don't fell like their life's are meaningless.”
“Marriage is an Athenic weaving together of families, of two souls with their individual fates and destinies, of time and eternity - everyday life married to the timeless mysteries of the soul.”
“Surrounded by people yet completely alone.”
“Maybe mistakes are what make our fate... without them what would shape our lives? Maybe if we had never veered off course we wouldn't fall in love, have babies, or be who we are. After all, things change, so do cities, people come into your life and they go. But it's comforting to know that the ones you love are always in your heart... and if you're very lucky, a plane ride away”
“Instead of looking back at the old days, work hard, and look to the future.”
“Loving someone can drive us crazy. Loving the wrong person can drive us to hell!”
“Your commitment will be proven when the enemy attacks.”
“Life is the only game in which the object of the game is to learn the rules”
“You can only sustain the storms in life if you have the correct daily, focused,preparation habits of a champion.”
“As each day passes by your past is past plus one and your future is future minus one.”
“Lift up your hearts, you good dancers, high! higher! And do not forget the good laughter!”
“It ought to be a vision of how we make life better for those people that live here, not a vision for dismantling the manufacturing base and taking the quality of life that we've known and enjoyed down to that of a Third World country.”
“I know I can sustain any storm in my life, because of my commitment to daily preparation and my laser-focused habits.”
“A sedentary life is the real sin against the Holy Spirit. Only those thoughts that come by walking have any value.”
“Though chains be of gold, they are chains all the same”
“Judge yourself fairly. Sentence yourself lightly. Pardon yourself often.”
“We've all had a childhood, so let's find out what the hell happened!”
“The falseness of an opinion is not, for us, any objection to it. The question is how far it is life furthering, life preserving, species preserving and perhaps species creating.”
“When one does away with oneself one does the most estimable thing possible: one thereby almost deserves to live.”
“Focused, determined champions win races. Distracted people become losers in the race of life.”
“No one but YOU owns the title deed to your dream.”
“We have to teach kids to report, and teach adults to do something, when they hear about it. A matter of hours or days, depending on the facts of the case, can make a difference between life and death.”
“In soliciting donations from his flock, a preacher may promise eternal life in a celestial city whose streets are paved with gold, and that's none of the law's business. But if he promises an annual free stay in a luxury hotel on Earth, he'd better have the rooms available.”
“They can just suddenly have a cold or whatever, and the next day, they pass away. They're on a very fine line between life and death.”
“Most surely in the creation of the heavens and the earth and the alternation of the night and the day, and the ships that run in the sea with that which profits men, and the water that Allah sends down from the cloud, then gives life with it to the earth after its death and spreads in it all (kinds of) animals, and the changing of the winds and the clouds made subservient between the heaven and the earth, there are signs for a people who understand.”
“It's a leap of faith. It seems like the right time in my life and the life of the community.”
“And in your (own) creation and in what He spreads abroad of animals there are signs for a people that are sure; / And (in) the variation of the night and the day, and (in) what Allah sends down of sustenance from the cloud, then gives life thereby to the earth after its death, and (in) the changing of the winds, there are signs for a people who understand.”
“We needed Kiki to play the game of his life today, and he played the best game I've ever seen him play. He showed his heart today.”
“Are you truly committed to your goals and dreams? Saying it doesn’t mean that you are living it.”
“Are you willing to pay the price for success? The investment is costly.”
“Life does the unthinkable, everyday.”
“Before Rome fell, most of its citizens spent their time trying to be amused. Of course nothing like that will happen to us.”
“There is no end to seeking and absorbing knowledge. True knowledge is unfathomable, uncapturable, unknowable… like life. but we got to keep living and just like life that we have to live, we have got to keep striving for knowledge without knowing what it leads to.”
“A committed champion is one who will do whatever it takes for as long as it takes to fulfill, manifest and live their God-given destiny.”
“When you choose to change and commit to your future, you are going to create controversy with the people around you.”
“Your future harvest is a result of the seeds that you have sown through your actions and your words.”
“Life is a GAME. So... let's Have FUN.”
“I have been through Hell, but it doesn't mean I have to stay there.”
“Come away with Me My beloved, I want to show you what I painted on the canvas of your life and I know the beauty of it will delight and amaze you.”
“If you want a marriage made in heaven, you first have to say I do to God.”
“God is not just something one adds to their life, He is your life.”
“He didn't even have a chance to live life. If it was my kid it would kill me.”
“So long as the law considers all these human beings, with beating hearts and living affections, only as so many things belonging to the master -- so long as the failure, or misfortune, or imprudence, or death of the kindest owner, may cause them any day to exchange a life of kind protection and indulgence for one of hopeless misery and toil -- so long it is impossible to make anything beautiful or desirable in the best-regulated administration of slavery.”
“We live life moving forwards, however we learn the most by looking backwards.”
“It quite often happens that the old man is subject to the delusion of a great moral renewal and rebirth, and from this experience he passes judgments on the work and course of his life, as if he had only now become clear-sighted; and yet the inspiration behind this feeling of well-being and these confident judgements is not wisdom, but weariness .”
“That's quite a statement, coming from a pro-life Republican.”
“There's a high price to pay for low living.”
“We came into this world with nothing and will leave with nothing. The only thing left behind is the best part of us that we give away.”
“To rise higher, lift others up.”
“The exact time of death, I think, is not something that matters so much at this moment for we will be reliving John Paul's life for many days and weeks and even years and decades and centuries to come.”
“You can't give to others what you don't have for yourself.”
“It is impossible to put into words the quiet strength and incredible courage Dana Reeve demonstrated in the way she lived her life. With Chris, she gave voice to a movement to find life-saving cures and promote medical research, and when she lost her inspiration and love she didn’t stop the fight. Only days after Chris’ death she continued to give hope to millions of Americans. She was an inspiration to me and to us all. Chris was America’s superhero, and Dana became our hero, too.”
“Hope for a better future begins by making Peace with your past.”
“That will allow us to do more paving and to extend the life of our tax levies.”
“The Macintosh is not a computer, it's a way of life.”
“And on stage, they're larger than life. The Bears actually stand about 6 feet tall.”
“When I saw you, my world changed. Life used to be long... but now… it seems short; like there is no time to waste.”
“He did something to me that traumatized my life, and I'm never going to forgive him for it.”
“I believe that the circus is a place where people can forget about the headaches and heartaches of life. And all the other countries getting along together is part of the magic that is the circus.”
“This is the second happiest day in my life. The first one will be when I get married.”
“[That love would turn to sorrow in 1994 when Hollywood was shot as he sat in the front seat of a parked Buick on NW 25th Avenue and 152nd Street in Miami. Trick sadly notes that Hollywood was] a powerful man in this community ... [Hollywood's death] was depressing. I was young and didn't understand why it had happened. To lose someone so close, you don't want to believe that they're gone. But it made me realize that you shouldn't take anything in life for granted. Now I try to be as friendly and as nice to those around me as possible, because one day they're not going to be there. It was one of the hardest things I've had to deal with. Hollywood was a great guy, and he didn't deserve that.”
“Throughout the life of this investigation, I have taken the position that I never knowingly disclosed any classified information. My position has not changed,”
“The invalid is a parasite on society. In a certain state it is indecent to go on living. To vegetate on in cowardly dependence on physicians and medicaments after the meaning of life, the right to life, has been lost ought to entail the profound contempt of society.”
“A man who has committed a mistake and doesn't correct it, is committing another mistake.”
“Methought I heard a voice cry "Sleep no more! Macbeth does murder sleep," the innocent sleep, Sleep that knits up the ravell'd sleave of care, The death of each day's life, sore labor's bath, Balm of hurt minds, great nature's second course, Chief n”
“This is a man who has given his life to public works and public service, and it's a shame he has to be humiliated like this.”
“My entire life has been put on hold,”
“I was elated by my success in my work, but shattered over my mother's death, and miserable about the way my marriage seemed to be foundering. And one day when my wife was away, I walked out of the house, and out of her life, trying to escape from something I could put no name to.”
“Life's like a PUZZLE and I got the LAST PIECE..”
“Be good, sweet maid, and let who will be clever; Do noble things, not dream them, all day long; And so make Life, and Death, and that For Ever, One grand sweet song”
“If you are struggling to accomplish something and are frustrated, let that be a sign that You are working to hard and Jesus is hardly working.”
“When we first met, we shared a dream. We decided that one day we would like to do a comprehensive study of the most powerful ceremonies that occurred across the African continent, spanning the life cycle from birth to death. We were aware these ceremonies were fast disappearing and we felt an urgency to record them before it was too late. And we've been working toward that for the last ten years in order to prepare our double-volume book.”
“We cannot control the past. We cannot control the future. What we DO have is right in front of us.”
“You can't put a price tag on somebody's life, and her life was so short-lived.”
“97% of people are not committed to anything.
When the wind changes, they go the other way.”
“Would you convict him on the basis of these lies? ... The stakes are very high: a man's life hangs in the balance and you must be very, very sure.”
“The belief that you have in your dream will get you through life’s ups and downs.”
“We were in Greenville, South Carolina, where he lived, and he was coming the next day to the show, but he passed away the night before. I was very close to my grandfather. He was the first guy to teach me how to ride a motorcycle, so (his death) meant a lot to me. It just gave me a perspective on life and how important it is to live it and enjoy it while we're here. Sometimes we're looking for the grass to be greener, and what's awesome is right in front of you.”
“My husband used to frustrate me so much because he wouldn't change, so I did.”
“I must have walked by faith and not by sight because the journey was so dark, I couldn't see where to go.”
“And for his diet, there was a continual diet given him of the king of Babylon, every day a portion until the day of his death, all the days of his life.”
“We should consider every day lost on which we have not danced at least once. And we should call every truth false which was not accompanied by at least one laugh.”
“If you place your Hope in the Son, you will have a Bright Future.”
“Faith is knowing in your heart that something is going to happen when there is absolutely no proof that it even exists.”
“Daily, consistent, focused, faithful expectation raises the miracle power of achieving your dreams.”
“Man is born in a day, and he dies in a day, and the thing is easily over; but to have a sick heart for three-fourths of one's lifetime is simply to have death renewed every morning; and life at that price is not worth living.”
“Our goal in life has been to see the world. As a kid you said you wanted to dig to China. Well, I wanted to see what China looked like, so that was one of the first places we went. We raised our children, got them through college, then we climbed the Great Wall, did the whole thing. And we gutted the house.”
“No pomade or bear grease, not even baptism, can grow back the foreskin of which we were robbed on the eighth day of life; those who, on the ninth day, do not bleed to death from this operation shall continue to bleed an entire lifetime, even after death.”
“Today, I Dance Lightly With Life.”
“The 25th anniversary of the decision ... is a call to people of good will to reflect seriously on the devastating consequences of that step. Now is the time for recommitment to the building of a culture of absolute respect for life from conception to natural death.”
“Hope is when you have come to the end of the road,
and found another street.”
“The only thing more final than Death is Yesterday.
You can not bring it back, nor can you change it.”
“Life is as easy or as hard as you think it is.”
“Life's burdens are lighter when I laugh at myself.”
“You don’t have the power to make life “fair,” but you do have the power to make life joyful.”
“Joy is a Choice - but Not an Easy Choice.”
“Choose the World You See, and See the World You Choose.”
“Time, like life itself, has no inherent meaning.
We give our own meaning to time as to life.”
“Lifes a hard game to win noone should be afraid to lose it, because in death everyone is a winner”
“The most profitable decisions in your life will be the most challenging.”
“If you focus on making money, then you will fail because you must decide to focus on making a difference in people's lives in to order earn the right to be financially free.”
“You are a champion so act like one!”
“"So don't shake the child. Don't wake her from her dreams. For that's where they come true. For that's where she is at peace"
- Shelby D”
“So walk through the door. Walk through the door and see if it leads to another one open. For if it does than you shall make your presence. For if it dosn't you shall call you dream reality and make sleeping just another thing we do”
“So be the one to save me. Be the one to save me from myself. For you shall be the one to show me the way. For you shall be the one to show me that everything will be okay”
“In one instant and his life was changed forever. Because of that research I got to hold in my hand a rat that had been paralyzed and which now walks again.”
““Along Your Life, Paths will be SHOWN to you. The Choice will always be yours to WALK any of them.””
““Nothing ever remains the Same in Life; Pain, Joy or Love.””
“So don't tell me It's not worth it. Don't tell me I'm just out of my mind. For I'm hard headed. For I do what feels right”
“When someone's leg is hurting, be their crutch, when someone's short of breath be their air, and when someone's life is hurting let them know you CARE.”
“There is no private domain of a person's life that is not political, and there is no political issue that is not ultimately personal.”
“You will never be lonely if you fill your life with meaningful projects and friends.”
“The best way to live life is one minute at a time, while knowing it could be your last.”
“Your daily decisions determine your ultimate destination.”
“*Focus eliminates Confusion*”
“Your results are the product of either personal focus or personal distractions. The choice is yours.”
“Precisely for this reason, St. Ignatius wanted young Jesuits to be formed for long years in the spiritual life and in studies.”
“The easiest and noblest way is not to be disabling to others but to be improving yourselves.”
“All negative qualities which humans choose to possess: vanity, materialism, greed, cruelty, hatred, dishonesty, envy; will eventually within that soul's existence be destined for punishment; do not ask how or by whom, they just will in some form or another! Their opposites will reap opposite.”
“Life is like sitting in a car. You have Three options.
You can keep it in park and go no where. Put it in reverse
and go backwards, or put it in drive and go forward.”
“I think this is the most ridiculous think I've ever been through in my life. We haven't done anything wrong. It think this is wrong that they are putting me and my family through this.”
“One should die proudly when it is no longer possible to live proudly.”
“Even a hare will bite when it is cornered”
“Only he that has traveled the road knows where the holes are deep”
“Accountability separates the wishers in life from the action-takers that care enough about their future to account for their daily actions.”
“It takes a certain kind of person to be willing to knowingly jeopardize their own life to help someone they don't even know. In that time of emergency, the firemen, police and everyday people going down the street became heroes.”
“Systems will either empower you to succeed or set you up to fail. Make the decision to build your daily success systems.”
“One has to pay dearly for immortality; one has to die several times while one is still alive”
“The best way to evaluate a person is by performance not intellect.”
“The person lives most beautifully who does not reflect upon existence”
“I've been running my whole life.”
“There is an unborn, a not-become, a not-made, a not-compounded. There cannot be any escape from what is born, become compounded. But since there is this unborn, not become, not-made, not-compounded, therefore is there made known an escape from what i”
“For the remainder of his life he will regret the damage and the hurt that so many people suffered as a result of this tragedy.”
“If you had to [sleep like that] your entire life, it would be a problem.”
“A dog in desperation will leap over a wall”
“Ambition is like love, impatient both of delays and rivals.”
“This Ariyan Eightfold Path, that is to say: Right view, right aim, right speech, right action, right living, right effort, right mindfulness, right contemplation.”
“Deny the passport, throw it away and make a great decision that you will not leave this shore until and unless you have liberated all the human beings.”
“My network needs me! I'm there. 'This Is Your Life' was always one of my favorite shows.”
“If this catches fire, it now affects everyone in the whole building. This is a life-safety issue.”
“Lent stimulates us to let the Word of God penetrate our life and in this way to know the fundamental truth: who we are, where we come from, where we must go, what path we must take in life.”
“The whole secret of existence is to have no fear. Never fear what will become of you, depend on no one. Only the moment you reject all help are you freed.”
“The key of persistence will open up any door that has been closed by resistance.”
“Without common sense, your life will be a circle of nonsense*”
“You will reap what you sow. Your harvest is ultimately your choice.”
“This Is Your Life.”
“Scriptural lessons not put into practice are poison; a meal is poison to him who suffers from indigestion; a social gathering is poison to a poverty stricken person; and a young wife is poison to an aged man.”
“We should always deal cautiously with fire, water, women, foolish people, serpents, and members of a royal family; for they may, when the occasion presents itself, at once bring about our death.”
“One guy is smiling a lot, and one guy is not. That's how life goes sometimes.”
“There comes a time in every man's life when he must make way for an older man.”
“Those who are destitute of learning, penance, knowledge, good disposition, virtue and benevolence are brutes wandering the earth in the form of men. They are burdensome to the earth.”
“It's a very serious look at her life and her choices, and the consequences of those choices.”
“It's not public works. It's not water, sewage or utilities. It's the soul of our life.”
“To change skins, evolve into new cycles, I feel one has to learn to discard. If one changes internally, one should not continue to live with the same objects. They reflect one's mind and the psyche of yesterday. I throw away what has no dynamic, living use.”
“I'm tired of fighting. I've always known that I can't be an action star all my life,”
“I will not be just a tourist in the world of images, just watching images passing by which I cannot live in, make love to, possess as permanent sources of joy and ecstasy.”
“The life of an action star is very short. I want to be an actor like Robert De Niro , like Dustin Hoffman or Clint Eastwood who in their 70s or 80s can still act,”
“The way of life is above to the wise, that he may depart from hell beneath (Proverbs 15:24).”
“move on to the next stage of his life.”
“Life for me is just taking my time and making sure things are right one day at a time. The organization has been so supportive, and I'm not pressured with any timetable. My family and I are worried about my health, and we are just making sure I'm getting better. Football is something I love and I want to do, but I have to think about my wife and my sons to make sure everything is right.”
“A man who speaks negatively about another man behind his back is not only afraid of that man, but is also afraid of his reputation...”
“The object is not to look like you have money, it's to actually have money."”
“People say money can't buy happiness, but it can sure keep alot of things from making you sad.”
“Just because misery loves company doesn't mean that I want to be in the company of misery.”
“To welcome the Redeemer in his life is for man a source of profound joy, a joy that can give peace even in times of trial. Be, therefore, servants of Truth to take the joy that God wants to give every man.”
“The ransom of a man's life are his riches: but the poor heareth not rebuke (Proverbs 13:8).”
“When people start to feed negative thoughts, they start to feed the seed of doubt. The seeds of doubt take root. The root develops into tree of despair.”
“We have kids from every spectrum of life.”
“I will not allow someone else's poor opinion, poor decisions, or poor words to keep my champion imprisoned.”
“An ancient proverb summed it up: when a wizard is tired of looking for broken glass in his dinner, it ran, he is tired of life.”
“The real impetus behind the show was that Jerry's family wanted to mark this 10th anniversary with some type of remembrance. Up to now, there hasn't been any formal kind of closure, and it became a kind of mandate for his family to celebrate Jerry's life.”
“If anything characterizes the cultural life of the seventies in America, it is an insistence on preventing failures of communication.”
“I love Wisconsin, but it made my life better (when he went to Cup racing). I had done about everything in short tracks that you can do. It was a new challenge for me to come down here and it gave me a new look on life. It was a different battlefield that gave me a new lease on life.”
“If destruction be our lot, we must ourselves be its author and finisher. As a nation of freemen, we must live through all time, or die by suicide.”
“There can never be enough said about life, only pictures can tell”
“For in life there will never be the same yesterday. Enjoy today inorder to have some wonderfull yesterdays to talk about tomorrow.”
“It only takes two to six seconds driving to get off track and physically die. Yet, people are off track in their lives for five, ten, or fifteen years and wonder why they aren’t achieving their dreams.”
“Every one desires to live long, but no one would be old.”
“When you stop learning, you still alive but your spirit is dead.”
“He had a tremendous influence on my life and a lot of kids in Lawndale. Pete is probably one of the straightest-shooting guys you've ever seen. We were competitive as hell, but there was huge sportsmanship.”
“The more people I know the more problems I have”
“There is two thing that you don't need to think :
First, Yesterday is a history that can't be change.
Second, Tomorrow is a mystery that we doesn't know.
What you got to do is today, do your best so you don't regret it later.”
“All that I am or hope to be I owe to my angel mother. I remember my mother's prayers and they have always followed me. They have clung to me all my life.”
“Success and true lifestyle freedom are in the foundations that you build on a daily basis.”
“Technology is pulling us away from the basic fundamentals of being a structured, focused, caring, giving, loving champion.”
“Never ever discount the idea of marriage. Sure, someone might tell you that marriage is just a piece of paper. Well, so is money, and what's more life-affirming than cold, hard cash?”
“A lot of problems related to the feet don't come up until later in life. But we do see children who are already having trouble, like with their plantar fascia tendon.”
“Life sucks and then you die.”
“Be yourself, and I promise people will enjoy it. And if they don't, forget them.”
“I play with my tractors and live somewhat of a family life and just try to enjoy trying to retire sooner or later.”
“Man cannot discover new oceans unless he has the courage to lose sight of the shore.”
“I remember when I went down to preach at the (King birthday) national celebration in 2003, and the (U.S.) Secretary of Education's people came to me before I was going into the pulpit and said, 'We need to know, are you going to say anything about the president or about the administration? I went over to Mrs. King and (told her) they're asking what I'm going to speak about, and if I'm going to talk about the administration. Now, you're the one who invited me here, what do you think? She said, 'You speak the truth and you answer to nobody.' And that was the kind of woman she was. She made it very clear. She believed in what she did and gave her life for it.”
“Asking the right questions will never lead you to the wrong answers.”
“It is for people who have tried everything to feel that life is good. All the things that were supposed to make them happy left them empty inside.”
“With the fearful strain that is on me night and day, if I did not laugh I should die”
“This is a great professional thing, ... It's a personal thrill, but it's not changing my life in the most important ways. It shouldn't.”
“You reach your real height when you stand up for what you believe.”
“Their faces radiated a serenity I had never seen on Earth. All were full of life and expressed radiant joy. Heaven was many things, but without a doubt, it was the greatest family reunion of all.”
“Beliefs have the power to create and the power to destroy. Human beings have the awesome ability to take any experience of their lives and create a meaning that disempowers them or one that can literally save their lives.”
“Most people never feel secure because they are always worried that they will lose their job, lose the money they already have, lose their spouse, lose their health, and so on. The only true security in life comes from knowing that every single day you are improving yourself in some way, that you are increasing the caliber of who you are and that you are valuable to your company, your friends, and your family.”
“You must honor your word and stand up for something or else you are going to get run over by everything.”
“Want to learn to eat a lot? Here it is: Eat a little. That way, you will be around long enough to eat a lot.”
“An officer is going to sacrifice his life or family for political gain for somebody else? It's beyond my understanding of human nature I can't see it. This sounds like Cook County politics at its finest.”
“Life is a campaign not a battle, and has its defeats as well as its victories.”
“When you focus on making a difference in a person’s life, you will change yours.”
“Can you have more than one major MISSION pervading your life? NO. That would be like coming to a fork in the road and trying to go both ways by straddling it.”
“If you take the shortcut to success, you will end up getting lost.”
“Just as the life of Jesus, in his obedience and dedication to the Father, is a living parable of the 'God with us,' in the same way the concrete commitment of consecrated persons to God and brothers becomes an eloquent sign of the presence of the Kingdom of God for the world of today.”
“If you want to Rich ...own your own Home and your own Business. Be FREE to pursue life in your own way ...with all your passion.”
“It wasn't really the game of my life. If it was the game of my life, I would have been able to finish the game.”
“What you do behind the scenes, predicts your scenery.”
“Lifestyle freedom is a commitment to do daily what others think about doing every once in a while.”
“It’s time that you step up to the plate and do what it takes to live a champion life.”
“If you are truly flexible and go until... there is really very little you can't accomplish in your lifetime.”
“God builds barriers in life not to keep us from obtaining what we want but to see how bad we really and truly want something.... You will break the wall down if you want it bad enough”
“which was to engage in a war on terrorism without regard to his own life and to cause death to Americans.”
“Most people have no idea of the giant capacity we can immediately command when we focus all of our resources on mastering a single area of our lives.”
“There is always a way-if you're committed.”
“for all the problems i have caused you both in life and in death.”
“I've come to believe that all my past failure and frustration were actually laying the foundation for the understandings that have created the new level of living I now enjoy.”
“Like to be in 2nd always to chase 1st”
“Life, it is not about the power, be it natural as a father or a mother, authoritative as a president or supernatural as a prophet or a prophecy but the wisdom attached to it, that is what it is all about.”
“Open your senses to the world around you and you will know who you are; for you are the creation of what you perceive...”
“Who decides how you will live your life? Remember, you only have one. Will you regret it or remember it fondly.”
“What you take for granted will change someone's life.”
“It's going to lower the quality of life considerably, which we paid for,”
“Too Many Have Too Little And Too Few Have Too Much”
“Young students have to deal with making a life, whereas seniors only have to worry about staying healthy. To me, and for a lot of us, it's just a relaxing and fun learning experience. Nobody is in heat, the hormones aren't flying all over the place.”
“Each person creates the life they live by choosing the words they speak.”
“Each person creates the life they live by choosing the words they speak.”
“I have learned that a smile is a better persuader than a fist, in the long run.”
“Successful people do what successful people do, and failures do what failures do; and if the failures did what the successful do, the failures would be successful.”
“A successful person is the product of their life just the same as a failure. The difference is that successful people have learned how to use the same challenges we all face as opportunities to learn and grow.”
“I like the charm and the life in the Fan - the street theater,”
“Past successes are bridges that lead us to our next victory.”
“How strange is the lot of us mortals! Each of us is here for a brief sojourn;for what purpose we know not, though sometimes sense it. But we know from daily life that we exist for other people first of all for whose smiles and well-being our own happiness depends”
“Blaming other people and circumstances leads to automatic failure.”
“A master communicator can either set his audience free or imprison them.”
“Fear is the destroyer of dreams and the killer of ambitions.”
“Without a strategy you greatly increase your probability to fail.”
“Fear is the ultimate self imposed illusion.”
“I thought, 'you're on tour leading a crazy life right now, but you've just asked me to make an album and I'm going to hold you to that'. He was really encouraging, which is nice because I doubt myself often.”
“Integrity of one's values is the highest score.”
“I have never looked upon ease and happiness as ends in themselves - such an ethical basis I call more proper for a herd of swine. The ideals which have lighted me on my way and time after time given me new courage to face life cheerfully, have been Truth, Goodness, and Beauty.”
“The way you talk to yourself will determine how you speak with others.”
“Intelligence makes clear to us the interrelationship of means and ends. But mere thinking cannot give us a sense of the ultimate and fundamental ends. To make clear these fundamental ends and valuations and to set them fast in the emotional life of the individual, seems to me precisely the most important function which religion has to form in the social life of man.”
“Success is not instant. The word “instant” is nowhere to be found in the success dictionary.”
“Pay the price the price for success or else you'll fail like 97% of people that simply quit.”
“What starts messy ends messy.”
“Marriage is a wonderful institution...but who wants to live in an institution?”
“I realized I was meant to live, that life had to change.”
“We have doctors, lawyers, judges, CEOs, teachers, surgeons, everybody from all walks of life,”
“Nothing Can Make You Suffer, Without Your Silent Permission”
“I feel that you are justified in looking into the future with true assurance, because you have a mode of living in which we find the joy of life and the joy of work harmoniously combined. Added to this is the spirit of ambition which pervades your v”
“Your imagination is your preview of life's coming attractions.”
“Real life seems to have no plots”
“Except ye become as little children, except you can wake on your fiftieth birthday with the same forward-looking excitement and interest in life that you enjoyed when you were five, ''ye cannot enter the kingdom of God.'' One must not only die daily, but every day we must be born again.”
“Not until the creation and maintenance of decent conditions of life for all people are recognized and accepted as a common obligation of all people and all countries - not until then shall we, with a certain degree of justification, be able to speak of humankind as civilized.”
“It's all I've been playing all of my life. When I was a freshman in high school, I was a two guard, but then I had this growth spurt and they threw me down in the post as a sophomore.”
“When you know the pressure is on and you have got to push yourself to make it through, it all comes down to the training that you did behind the scenes.”
“There is no such thing as a success shortcut. Be willing to take the long road or you will hit a dead end.”
“I made my lifelong dream of attending Harvard University a reality when I realized someone has to do it, why not me? Why not YOU?”
“Love Friends Happiness three words gives you unlimited fuel for life”
“The great thing about life is you never know what's waiting around the corner, ... You have to be ready for anything.”
“Confession is good for the soul, but bad for the reputation.”
“Long hair minimizes the need for barbers; socks can be done without; one leather jacket solves the coat problem for many years; suspenders are superfluous.”
“Except ye become as little children, except you can wake on your fiftieth birthday with the same forward-looking excitement and interest in life that you enjoyed when you were five, "ye cannot enter the kingdom of God." One must not only die daily, but every day we must be born again.”
“We had absolutely no life, no energy. They just came out and didn't play. That really surprised me, really disappointed me.”
“I cannot conceive of a God who rewards and punishes his creatures, or has a will of the kind that we experience in ourselves. Neither can I nor would I want to conceive of an individual that survives his physical death; let feeble souls, from fear or absurd egoism, cherish such thoughts. I am satisfied with the mystery of the eternity of life and with the awareness and a glimpse of the marvelous structure of the existing world, together with the devoted striving to comprehend a portion, be it ever so tiny, of the Reason that manifests itself in nature.”
“Yesterday, it was my birthday I hung one more year on the line I should be depressed My life's a mess But I'm Having A Good Time...”
“I only know about teamwork. I've been around it my entire life and I still work for a team. I look for the Yankees to respond to your requests when you look them in the eye and ask them.”
“If you want to predict the future use your past. If you want to create the future design dreams.”
“The World is a book, and those who do not travel read only a page.”
“We think our fathers fools, so wise we grow. Our wiser sons, no doubt will think us so.”
“Live so that put downs and praise you receive are equally uplifting -- and are equally proof that you are meeting your life's purpose.”
“Work-life balance is not a solution, because it does not prevent work from continuing to be oppressive.”
“If all the ideas you dream up are being executed on then you don't have many ideas.”
“She led a very active life. She has contributed a lot not only to the Judiciary but to the political life of the country.”
“The school has always been the most important means of transferring the wealth of tradition from one generation to the next. This applies today in an even higher degree than in former times, for through modern development of economic life, the family”
“The fear of flying prevents people from traveling to such a degree that it affects family life and business opportunities.”
“The further the spiritual evolution of mankind advances, the more certain it seems to me that the path to genuine religiosity does not lie through the fear of life, and the fear of death, and blind faith, but through striving after rational knowledge.”
“A person may rightfully be happy if in this life he could do a great favor for widows and orphans, could assist support than, and facilitate fate of people.”
“The important thing is not to stop questioning. Curiosity has its own reason for existing. One cannot help but be in awe when he contemplates the mysteries of eternity, of life, of the marvelous structure of reality. It is enough if one tries merely to comprehend a little of this mystery every day. Never lose a holy curiosity.”
“I'm happy I've been all my life with my nation, was respected and honored by my nation, could be useful and help my people.”
“You must immerse yourself in as much self-development information as possible in order to build a rock solid belief structure.”
“Work-life balance is not a solution, because it does not prevent work from continuing to be oppressive.”
“Why live a mediocre existence when you have the entire world at your fingertips?”
“Sometimes the wrong way is the right direction.”
“Planet's are the eggs, comets are the sperm, space is the womb.”
“This is a really important moment in the life of this plane and the life of this story.”
“Believe in yourself, if you don't, no one else will”
“Enrich the soil that will produce your harvest by speaking words of prosperity over your life.”
“Don’t be frightened by controversy. Instead, face it head-on so your strength is undeniable.”
“Life is a series of little deaths out of which life always returns.”
“The human story does not always unfold like a mathematical calculation on the principle that two and two make four. Sometimes in life they make five or minus three; and sometimes the blackboard topples down in the middle of the sum and leaves the class in disorder and the pedagogue with a black eye.”
“The only guide to man is his conscience; the only shield to his memory is the rectitude and sincerity of his actions. It is very imprudent to walk through life without this shield, because we are so often mocked by the failure of our hopes and the upsetting of our calculations; but with this shield, however the fates may play, we march always in the ranks of honor.”
“Say this out loud: "I am a certified champion by birthright. My certificate of life gives me the right to achieve success.””
“When there is life and mankind, a person will live striving for good deeds, liberty and a bright life, and wish that goodness and justice will reign in the world.”
“Put your greatest possession on the tallest shelf so if you fall you have something to reach for.”
“I have learned in life that when a person accuses you of something that the accuser HAS that exact same problem.”
“We defend and we build a way of life, not for America alone, but for all of mankind”
“Your pledge to achieve your dreams is the foundation of your ability to do it.”
“Say this out loud: “I will not let my negative defaults determine my level of success.””
“Failure is guaranteed if you are not committed to success.”
“Education does not end at any point in our lives; it is an ongoing journey to be carried with us everyday throughout our lives.”
“Education does not end at any point in our lives; it is an ongoing journey to be carried with us everyday throughout our lives.”
“Following your passion is the best way to lead a fruitful life.”
“Life is a roller coaster. Sometimes you're at the top of the hill feeling good. Other times your heading for the bottom feeling totally out of control. Life is full of things that are hard to handle, but you can get through them.”
“How do you prevent waking up one day only realizing that …….… you've squandered your one precious life?”
“Throughout my life, I have seen narrow-shouldered men, without a single exception, committing innumerable stupid acts, brutalizing their fellows and perverting souls by all means. They call the motive for their actions fame.”
“Wag More, Bark Less”
“My Mission is to always be creating...to take every opporunity to learn... to inspire others to be everything they can be... to love and be loved...to live life to it's fullest, drinking in every drop that God has poured into this journey for me. To play full on in everything I do, so that when I finally make it home I can walk through the door jump into God's arms and say, "I did it, Daddy! I did it!" - Terry Barnett”
“Own your own Home. Own your own Business. Own your own Life.”
“The secret of life is in art.”
“If you don't create and maintain a strong cement foundation of commitment, then the negative weeds will grow in the cracks
between you and your dreams.”
“All you need to do is a little bit of extra everyday to become absolutely EXTRAORDINARY!”
“It's not grudges that I hold, it's just bad memories I can't forget”
“He believed that everyone, everyone had the chance to get ahead in life,”
“Sometimes, when I'm under water, I forget life's troubles.”
“Without Dreams, there is no Desire. Without Desire, there is no Idea. Without Idea, there is no Invention.”
“Pain is inevitable, suffering is optional.”
“Rosalind is arguably one of the most important roles in the canon. She's an extraordinary human, full of life, struggling with the passion of love and betrayal.”
“Open your eyes every morning and smile, because you know that you have another day to make a difference of the life of another.”
“A great person is guided by their integrity.”
“What happens is not as important as how you react to what happens.”
“Expect that you will achieve greatness. Live a life with no ceiling on it.”
“Champions are created from the insight of the heart.”
“You can't climb the ladder of success dressed with a failure attitude.”
“Enthusiasm is a rare trait for a failure.”
“Bear in mind that the wonderful things you learn in your schools are the work of many generations. All this is put in your hands as your inheritance in order that you may receive it, honor it, add to it, and one day faithfully hand it on to your children.”
“Security will make you complacent and will ultimately destroy your dreams. If you're secure right now in a job, then you could be in the process of demolishing any hope of achieving
what you really what out of life.”
“Sometimes things are most truly revealed by the illuminance of twilight”
“Do nothing which is of no use.”
“Generally speaking, the Way of the warrior is resolute acceptance of death”
“The fear of death follows from the fear of life. A man who lives fully is prepared to die at any time.”
“Life sucks and then you die.”
“Preparation predicts the end result.”
“It's like life. It's never finished. It just changes its forms. I think consolidation is part of being healthy in an industry.”
“Stress is frustrates you and plants the seed of doubt in your mind. Defeat it by resting and repairing your mind and body.”
“You will never reach higher ground if you are always pushing others down.”
“Honest debate stops when the name calling starts.”
“For all his sense of history, his large, untroubled, easy-going style of life, his unshakable feeling of personal security, his natural assumption of being at home in the great world far beyond the confines of his own country, Roosevelt was a typical child of the twentieth century and of the New World.”
“Failure is permanent only when a person quits attempting to succeed.”
“When people ask me about my religion they often ask, "Why do you do these things?" I simply tell them "Why not?"”
“Friendship at first sight, like love at first sight is said to be the only truth”
“It's the first time I got dumped in my life,”
“Believe in yourself. If you don’t, then no one else will have a reason to.”
“Preparation builds confidence.”
“Mood is the most enigmatic organizer of our lives.”
“When you truly and unconditionally accept all that you experience, you will experience pure and unconditional Love ~ Mona Santl”
“She has a great passion for life that comes through her art.”
“I was with Arnold Steinhardt (first violinist). It was one of the great experiences of my life.”
“It's funny how most people love the dead, once you're dead you're made for life.”
“People do not live nowadays. They get about 10% out of life.”
“It's been the best two weeks of my life, to qualify for the Davis Cup final and win a title in Metz, ... I played some great tennis there, really. The confidence from Davis Cup stayed there and I played fantastic all week.”
“Unlike the phoenix that can rise from the ashes of its own death, I can only haunt the heart and memories of others.”
“when everything else falls apart and crumples away.... your will and soul is still there”
“I know I can sustain any storm in my life, because I have seen the forecast and prepared for the weather ahead of me.”
“Nothing will change until you step out in faith and take uncomfortable, challenging action.”
“Expect a miracle. Command the atmosphere of expectation with your powerful faith-filled words and daily focused actions.”
“How great will it be if humans could achieve deeper understanding while still floating above the sea of common senses.”
“It's the best performance of my life. I never felt in any trouble, and I felt I had three or four chances to break him in the second set. I was really confident and relaxed on all my shots.”
“It's the best performance of my life. I thought I could play well but not this well. ... See you tomorrow.”
“The past is the past, the history is history, if you've got the determination, why don't you use it to do better instead of feeling guilty for the past?”
“Breathe to clear the mind and body too of impulsiveness.”
“It's the first match of my life on centre court here, and I hope it's not my last. I had only two days to prepare and I was struggling a bit in my first two matches. Today it was much better and I'm looking forward to the quarter-finals.”
“A champion decision is based upon irrefutable belief in yourself and your dream.”
“Until you believe enough in yourself, nothing is going to change.”
“Victory does not exist without conflict, competition and challenges.”
“It's the first time I got dumped in my life. I think the one thing I would point to as a primary reason, basically, is that I was a gigantic ass.”
“Your life is your message to the world.”
“It will shock many - I've lived a full life and really enjoyed my time as a pop star.”
“Courage is just a word until you take a risk based only on your faith in yourself.”
“He had dreamed of playing there his whole life. He told me right after the game he was the happiest man alive right now.”
“Your future is so bright you gotta wear shades...”
“There comes a point in your life when you realize who matters, who never did, who won’t anymore, and who always will. So don’t worry about people from your past, there’s a reason they didn’t make it to your future”
“Everyone is confused about life, if you are not confused about life its because you are already 6 feet in the ground and chilling in the clouds.”
“Seek to cultivate a buoyant, joyous sense of the crowded kindnesses of God in your daily life.”
“This has been going on for four years, but now my life is hell. It's hell and that's all.”
“I definitely want to do this for the rest of my life, whether I do it professionally or just for fun. Hopefully I will get to do some big classes like World Cup.”
“I made a decision today to release my champion desire burning inside of my heart.”
“There's a lot more important things in life than baseball and she's definitely it, ... It's tough to leave her. But it's the job I have. Sometimes it's tough. Sometimes you have to be away from home.”
“the coldest night gives birth to the sweetest dawn forlorn stautues make love under the watch of seeds fermenting the soil demented minds no longer blinded as they found their niche the poorest man can indeed be rich”
“She's really quite talented, ... It was like she had been making movies all her life. There was no naivety or clumsiness.”
“It's amazing how people are sitting in front of thier computers, and trying to find the best sentence to quote. One that will summerize thier regained wisdom over thier short life. One that will make them feel good with themselves. One that will help them make it through the day. All they want is Recognition.”
“We make a living by what we get, but we make a life by what we give.”
“If I seem detached or distant, it's because I think this is a more exact reproduction of life, where you hide as much as you show. When I see a scene in which feelings get loudly exteriorized, I say to myself, 'Well, at least this never happens to me.' I very rarely go through this type of expression. Most of the time things are hidden or at least much more subdued.”
“She was a larger-than-life figure. She was not the stuffy type of traditional cabinet minister.”
“Life is not fair, not just, not right: But who ever said that life is suppose to be fair, just and right.”
“Life... It tends to respond to our outlook, to shape itself to meet our expectations.”
“I expect to resume a normal life ... I pay homage to the donor's family.”
“Life... It tends to respond to our outlook, to shape itself to meet our expectations.”
“I want to resume a normal life.”
“If you can't answer a man's arguments, all is not lost; you can still call him vile names.”
“Treat a man as if he were what he ought to be and you help him become what he is capable of being”
“I expect to resume a normal life. My operation could help others to live again.”
“Despite their pain, their mourning, they agreed to give a second life to people in distress. Thanks to them, a door to the future is open to me and to others.”
“It lets us manage life in a less than completely planned way. We can coordinate the organization of the day in real time. A lot of BlackBerries are used this way not only at work but planning the family day. We can coordinate with our partner who's going to get the child and do it from anywhere. E-mail has this addictive property, even on our desktop.”
“Never Tell Me Your Gonna Try To Do Something, To Me, Try Is Another Word For Fail & I Will Not Let You Fail.”
“when a man/woman is unsatisfied with him/her self he/she will/should do what is in his/her power to better him/her self and those around him/her”
“It is time that we demolish the enemy of fear!”
“Every sale has five basic obstacles: no need, no money, no hurry, no desire, no trust.”
“Honor and integrity are traits that show who you really are when no one else is around.”
“there is no dragon guarded tower, no knight in shining armor. No hero, no villain. Only life”
“The cure for anything is salt water - sweat, tears, or the sea”
“There is only one cause of unhappiness: the false beliefs you have in your head, beliefs so widespread, so commonly held, that it never occurs to you to question them.”
“The only thing that happens instantly is the decision to change.”
“I consider this movement part of the human rights movement, ... Everybody is entitled to an equal chance in life. ... I'm going to keep pressing so everyone has an equal chance in the world. There's still a lot of work to do, and we'll keep doing it.”
“I would like to point out that June 13 was probably the most anxious day of Michael Jackson's life. That was the day the jury reached the verdict.”
“I like my money right where I can see it... hanging in my closet.”
“Money is just a small part of success. You can’t buy the most important parts.”
“No man has a good enough memory to be a successful liar.”
“If you give money to someone that is broke not only financially but also spiritually, emotionally, physically and socially, then you might as well just throw it in the garbage. They simply aren’t ready to receive it!”
“The decision to kiss for the first time is the most crucial in any love story. It changes the relationship of two people much more strongly than even the final surrender; because this kiss already has within it that surrender.”
“A man loved by a beautiful woman will always get out of trouble”
“You don't want to love--your eternal and abnormal craving is to be loved. You aren't positive, you're negative. You absorb, absorb, as if you must fill yourself up with love, because you've got a shortage somewhere.”
“What you know is only half of the equation.”
“Despite all the faults, it's still really important to [my] everyday life.”
“Your comfort zone is nice and cozy, but is it so great that you want to remain there forever?”
“Your family legacy is determined by the actions that you take today.”
“Being a leader involves more than just standing at the front of the line.”
“It became a natural part of life.”
“It's real life. If you make a mistake, it's a lot more costly. It's a cool track. I like it.”
“I felt it would leave a scar, disappointing him in his young life. I learned long ago that if you say no, they stick to the point and insist on doing it. Nothing fazed him.”
“Don’t be offended by rejection. Instead, let it strengthen your belief that God has better things in store for your dream.”
“Design is not for philosophy - it's for life”
“It is art that makes life, makes interest, makes importance and I know of no substitute whatever for the force and beauty of its process.”
“An attitude to life which seeks fulfillment in the single-minded pursuit of wealth - in short, materialism - does not fit into this world, because it contains within itself no limiting principle, while the environment in which it is placed is strictly limited.”
“Enjoy each shower like it was your last, you'll never know when your life's water will end”
“Understand to love the qualities of life not the quantities”
“Everyday holds challenges for you to overcome, let go of negative thoughts and your mind will set you free!”
“People say the end is near, God says we need not to fear, life will always be here”
“Obviously, any time you have detainees who will sacrifice their life to kill you or what you stand for, I mean, that's the most dangerous type of individual you can have in your control,”
“To love oneself is the beginning of a life-long romance”
“Your ability to live your dream is not based on your physical capabilities. It’s determined by the belief and faith inside of your heart.”
“Throughout the years, whenever darkness has touched my life, it has been a strong faith in God and a great network of friends that have carried me through the troubled waters and given me the strength to carry on. Your presence here today is an inspiration to me as it symbolizes the friendship and love we have shared throughout the years.”
“A tired mind equals tired results. You must rest your mind and your spirit to achieve greatness.”
“Life is not hard nor boring, if you think life is hard, then you are just too weak, if you think life is boring, then you don't know how to use your time”
“Think outside of the box. Your creativity is not found in your comfort zone.”
“Physical exercise not only changes the appearance of your body, it also clears your mind and releases frustration that causes you to make unwise decisions that produce an unwanted outcome.”
“Your dream is the reason that you climb out of bed every morning and face the challenges of the world. Don’t hide under the covers and miss your opportunity to achieve it.”
“I can tell you that I've had maybe one of the toughest years I've ever had in my life, just the anxiety of not being able to know whether we're going to be able to keep this event here.”
“Create something that you want to see in the world.”
“Smiling and laughter is good medicine, powerful medicine. An easy dose to swallow, with no aftertaste or ill effects, simple and free...Keep those thoughts near to your heart.”
“I have learned much about life, from death.”
“I have a lot to be humble about, ... I'd like to say that it's the happiest day of my life, but it isn't: The happiest day of my life was when I was anointed a Catholic priest.”
“Without commitment, you are like a dog chasing his tail.”
“Every failure is a stepping stone to success.”
“If you walk like a champion and talk like a champion, then it’s nearly impossible for you not to be champion.”
“Sometimes I get lonely, but it's nice to be alone.”
“Don't live as if you are to die tomorrow. That isn't useful.
Instead live as if you only had ten years. Now go and work on your legacy.”
“The only way to achieve your goals in life, is to do everything you do for the PROCESS of doing it, and not for the GOAL at the end of the process. Or in other words, the goal of every process, should be the process itself.”
“Love is my sin, and thy dear virtue hate, Hate of my sin, grounded on sinful loving”
“This has been the saddest day of my life.”
“You know there are too many wonderful oppurtunity's in life you can miss, just like that... until you put your sheild down you will you will be missing them.”
“When life gives you lemons, make grape juice...then everyone will look at you funny and think to themselves, 'how did she do that?'”
“Life is ten percent what happens to you and ninety percent how you respond to it.”
“The hardest people to reach with the love of God are not the bad people. They know they are bad. They have no defense. The hardest ones to win for God are the self-righteous people.”
“Love is suffering. One side always loves more ...”
“Prayer is talking with God and telling Him you love Him. Conversing with God about all the things that are important in life, both large and small, and being assured that He is listening to what God might want to say to you.”
“Water drops...Are they tears?..Relax...everyone cries once in times....When the sun rises, rain will dry...When laughter fills, teras will disappear...”
“President Reagan achieved greatness in his life. Some might even argue he transcended it, ... He could not have accomplished this without Nancy.”
“Happiness is something that multiplies when it is divided”
“Above all, love each other deeply, because love covers over a multitude of sins. Offer hospitality to one another without grumbling (1 Peter 4:8-9).”
“In spite of the way many people are turning away from God, not for other gods, but for no god; in spite of the mess we are making of this beautiful Planet Earth which God has given us, God still loves the world.”
“I guess I just prefer to see the dark side of things. The glass is always half empty. And cracked. And I just cut my lip on it. And chipped a tooth.”
“When I see pain in others. I feel great. The glory seeing pain is what thrills me. What I live for, and die for. I am neither a Saint or a Demon, I'm just a human. A normal human that watches pain from a distance. This is my life. Life of a normal human.”
“He makes life easier for these people.”
“The only thing in life that I can count on to be infinitely challenging are human beings.”
“911 -- A Day in the Life of a People,”
“When 'so much' starts to seem like 'so little', you know you're on the wrong side of 30.”
“I am rediscovering the whole sexual dimension of life at the age of 86, really. And that also means discovering the feminine. So the whole of this dimension, which I had been seeking for a very long time, is now sort of opening itself up to me.”
“Sometimes we look for those thunderous things to happen in our life for our lives to change or go in the other direction. We seek the miracle. We seek the parting of the seas, the moving of the mountains. But no, it's a quiet thing. At least for me it was.”
“The chief value of money lies in the fact that one lives in a world in which it is overestimated.”
“Your time is limited, so don't waste it living someone else's life. Don't be trapped by dogma - which is living with the results of other people's thinking. Don't let the noise of other's opinions drown out your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition. They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary.”
“You cannot control what happens to you, but you can control your attitude toward what happens to you, and in that, you will be mastering change rather than allowing it to master you.”
“And in the end, it's not the years in your life that count. It's the life in your years.”
“Who Dressed You Like a Foreigner? ... Everything we want in life is near us, and we can't recognize it because it doesn't appear to us the way we thought it should be. Who dressed you like a foreigner? I can't recognize that you, my love that I was seeking, were right in front of me.”
“Don't walk in front of me; I may not follow. Don't walk behind me; I may not lead. Just walk beside me and be my friend.”
“Life is like riding a bicycle. To keep your balance you must keep moving”
“Venus is extremely inhospitable for life, whereas Earth is a great place to live. If these planets were created about the same time, why would Earth take on such a different character?”
“Your first head coaching job is the toughest year of your life,”
“You have put your vested interest in keeping this case in your hands, above my interest to save my life.”
“Once the insect feeds on an infected tree, it will be a carrier of the disease for life. It will spread to other trees. That's the real danger here.”
“The spiritual quest was always the predominant aspect of my life. It's always been there. But there's also an incredible passion connected to it; it's not just a dry investigative process. I have been extremely emotional about it, and that comes out in the songs.”
“Some of our kids are literally sleep-walking through life, with some potentially serious consequences. As clinicians and researchers, we know more now than ever about the biological and behavioral issues that prevent kids from getting enough sleep. But the National Sleep Foundation did something powerful: They asked teens themselves about their sleep. The results are startling and should be a wake-up call to any parent or pediatrician.”
“There's every flavor in between, of course, but that's pretty much how life is going to be.”
“There are things in your life - nobody's perfect, of course - things you just need to cleanse.”
“I looked at some of the statues of Jesus; they were just stones with no life. When they said that God is three, I was puzzled even more but could not argue. I believed it, simply because I had to have respect for the faith of my parents.”
“It was important for me to duck out of the fast and furious life I'd been living as a pop star. I was in a different mood.”
“Better pass boldly into that other world, in the full glory of some passion, than fade and wither dismally with age.”
“Communal well-being is central to human life.”
“The best day of your life is the one on which you decide your life is your own. No apologies or excuses. No one to lean on, rely on, or blame. The gift is yours - it is an amazing journey - and you alone are responsible for the quality of it. This is the day your life really begins.”
“The battle for Jerusalem is a battle of life or death, ... There will be no peace, no security, no stability without the return of liberated Jerusalem, the eternal capital for an independent Palestinian state, whether they like it or not.”
“The fear of life which is the beginning of all evil....”
“He who knows how to obey knows how to command.”
“Take up one idea.Make that one idea your life,think of it,dream of it,live on that idea. Let the brain,muscles,nerves,every part of your body be full of that idea,and just leave every other idea alone. This is the way to success,and this is the way great spiritual giants are produced. Others are mere talking machines...”
“Don't ever give up. You just hope they take that lesson into life.”
“"Face the brutes." That is a lesson for all life—face the terrible, face it boldly. Like the monkeys, the hardships of life fall back when we cease to flee before them.”
“...Peace is a precious target. What I signed with my partner Prime Minister (Yitzhak) Rabin, who lost his life for peace, and after him Mr. Shimon Peres, I hope I will continue with Mr. Netanyahu.”
“In your efforts to cut costs and save money, avoid getting caught up in the "buy more, save more" marketing ploys, because when you're spending, you're not saving.”
“Even a happy life cannot be without a measure of darkness, and the word happiness would lose its meaning if it were not balanced by sadness.”
“I've learned that no matter what happens, or how bad it
seems today, life does go on, and it will be better tomorrow. I've learned that
you can tell a lot about a person by the way he/she handles these three things:
a rainy day, lost luggage, and tangled Christmas tree lights. I've learned that
regardless of your relationship with your parents, you'll miss them when they're
gone from your life. I've learned that making a living is not the same thing as
making a life. I've learned that life sometimes gives you a second chance. 
I've learned that you shouldn't go through life with a catcher's mitt on both
hands; you need to be able to throw some things back. I've learned that whenever
I decide something with an open heart, I usually make the right decision. I've
learned that even when I have pains, I don't have to be one. I've learned that
every day you should reach out and touch someone. People love a warm hug, or
just a friendly pat on the back. I've learned that I still have a lot to learn. 
I've learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you
did, but people will never forget how you made them feel.”
“We pray God give you a long life, good health, serenity and peace so that you can continue to spread the Christian message of love and peace.”
“Lord I believe your promises. I receive your provision. I walk in you blessings. I live by your grace. I accept your mercy. I long for your embrace.”
“The NBA life has made me grow up a lot. I have not just grown up in my basketball skills, it's made me stronger and tougher.”
“A healthy body and a sound mind is necessary to achieve success in life. ”
“He's a player with a purpose in life. Bobby has never strayed. He came here with a purpose, to get his degree, to go back to Chicago and work with underprivileged kids, to help them out of situations that he came from.”
“Hanging onto resentment is letting someone you despise live rent-free in your head”
“Only by doing so one shall be able to lead a simple life full of growth and progress.”
“Maturity is the ability to do a job whether or not you are supervised, to carry money without spending it and to bear an injustice without wanting to get even.”
“The trouble with talking too fast is you may say something you haven't thought of yet.”
“The moment this fire extinguishes, the soul departs. Sound health is a primary criteria for long life . ”
“There will be problems in married life if there is a lack of mutual understanding and co-ordination between husband and wife or if any of them does not perform his/her duties.”
“We were like Lazarus. We came back to life, then it was like it got reversed, and the next thing you know, we were back in the obituaries.”
“The best time to start improving the next ten years of your life is always - now. Why wait?”
“If you want to win anything - a race, your self, your life - you have to go a little berserk.”
“People move forward into the future out of the way they comprehend the past. When we don't understand something in our past, we are therefore crippled.”
“The object of art is to give life a shape. [Midsummer Nights Dream]”
“The free way of life proposes ends, but it does not prescribe means.”
“Learn a lesson from the birds. They feed those who cannot fly far. The bird relieves the itch of the buffalo by scratching it with its beak; they help and serve each other with no thought of reward.”
“He's very calm and he's just telling us about his life. He's not rude.”
“All that glisters is not gold.
Often you have heard that told:
Many a man his life hath sold
But my outside to behold:
Gilded tombs do worms enfold.”
“life.no logic.just energy.”
“Anyone who betrays me, I never forget”
“Nothing in his life became him like the leaving it; he died as one that had been studied in his death to throw away the dearest thing he owed, as 't were a careless trifle.”
“Baldness is a sign that you no longer have to hide your wisdom from people who think they know everything.”
“Standing in the middle of the road is very dangerous; you get knocked down by the traffic from both sides.”
“Stage energy, when it's working properly, is 10 times life energy,”
“I thought Peter Brown give us a nice life in the first half and I thought Ben really answered the bell in the second half. There was some key buckets that Ben delivered on. I thought we competed hard and played with a lot of energy. This was a team win where everyone contributed.”
“You need to release, to humble yourself, and realize that you have things in your life you need to take to God.”
“I had my youth, I'm elsewhere in my life. I'm [nearly] 40 years old now and I want to focus my efforts on the campaign.”
“If you want to cut your own throat, don't come to me for a bandage.”
“Like madness is the glory of this life.”
“Literature is a comprehensive essence of the intellectual life of a nation.”
“He relates to everyone and has the ability to work effectively with people from all walks of life. (The unanimous vote) is a reflection of the universal respect he commands in the party.”
“Our legal system, our politics, our ethics, even our disagreements -- life today is shaped largely by events that happened 2,000 years ago. It's very important to know the fundamentals of Christianity, and get a dialogue of Christians and Jews going.”
“It haunted him for the rest of his life. And he took it to his grave.”
“I think there's still some life left in these second-tier optical networking sector. And by (saying) second tier I'm not being disparaging. They don't have breakthrough technology; they're just good production people.”
“The market has been trying to stabilize but it hasn't shown much life yet. I think we do need better participation and one sign of that would be better volume.”
“It was a time in my life I'll always look back on with fond memories,”
“This is like a real shock to the whole entire family. She painted her life to be perfect. We're really shocked if she's done anything, because she's always been the perfect one.”
“In order to become victorious, one must defeat the true beast within...”
“[The court gave] significant weight ... she may have little worthwhile life left.”
“I've never, ever in my life enjoyed playing live the way I am now.”
“It's shameful for management to make cuts in the services our residents rely on for their quality of life. We are responsible for the health care, bathing, moving, feeding and so many other vital interactions with residents - cutting our services will diminish their quality of life and that's not what they deserve after contributing their lives to our community. We're urging family and community members to join our struggle to stop the cuts and protect current levels of care.”
“In order to stand up, you must first fall down.”
“Life was a general interest magazine and since its reincarnation, it had always struggled to find its identity, to find its position in the marketplace.”
“Maybe later on in life I will run for the track championship, ... But right now, I just want to race.”
“She was hilarious. She was probably like the life of our wing.”
“I'm back to normal and enjoying life again.”
“I have never bottled anything in my life and I'm not going to start now,”
“As a well spent day brings happy sleep, so a life well spent brings happy death.”
“You can relate to all these different ages of his life. Those couples could be seen as the same couple at the three different stages of life or it could be seen as three generations of the same family.”
“'Tis hard with respect to Beauty, that its possessor should not have a life enjoyment of it, but be compelled to resign it after, at the most, some forty years' lease”
“Then sing as Martin Luther sang:
"Who loves not wine, woman, and song,
He is a fool his whole life long!"”
“Enjoy the Moment, its only here for a short amount of time!”
“This terrible thing that happened in my life was such a shock because I never saw any signs of violence or abuse in their marriage,”
“Fatherhood is pretending the present you love most is soap-on-a-rope.”
“It's a love letter to actors, and I love any story about theater, actors and backstage life in any era. What's exciting is the collaboration between the three of them. It's going to be exciting. And the talent they will attract will be part of what makes it a special event.”
“Life takes action. Pessimists say it can't be done so they do nothing. Optimists say it will be done do they do nothing. Entrepreneurs say IT CAN BE DONE and they take action; thus, things get done.”
“For they say there's a Providence sits up aloft,/ To keep watch for the life of poor Jack!”
“To spend life for something which outlasts it.”
“Religion, whatever it is, is a man's total reaction upon life. The Varieties of Religious Experience, 1902”
“My philosophy in life grows everyday. Really a new day is a new page in my book of life, and well though days fly so quick, the pages in life stays forever and you can always turn back to the important elements of life and learn from your mistakes.”
“I am a weathered poet who has experienced the elements of life. I have a bitter sweet past and i use that power to illuminate my path to success.”
“Do not murder opportunity by killing time.”
“To stimulate wildly weak and untrained minds is to play with mighty fires.”
“Happiness comes of the capacity to feel deeply, to enjoy simply, to think freely, to risk life, to be needed. which give happiness. Thomas Jefferson We never enjoy perfect happiness; our most fortunate successes are mingled with sadness; some anxieties always perplex the reality of our satisfaction.”
“All in all we thought it was a great experience and helped us succeed in life.”
“She's made some vibes that it isn't something that she wants to do for the rest of her life, so we'll see.”
“She was an extraordinary human being whose work and whose life were extremely intertwined. She was not unlike the heroines of most of her plays — a strong-minded, independent, serious good person.”
“We can only live once why not try to be as nice as possible to others and to ourselves.”
“If you live to be 100, I hope I live to be 100 minus 1 day, so I never have to live without you.”
“If the meaning of life is mostly about money and material possessions, one would think everyone would become criminals and thieves.”
“LET OUR LIGHTS BE BROKEN TO REINSTATE OUR DAYS OF GLORIOUS BOOM”
“People have faith in very little. That is the reality of our way of life.”
“don't dig up shit and not expect it to stink.”
“Pick your own path. Which direction you choose doesn't matter; you can have any experience you want with no negative consequences.”
“WHY IS IT THAT SOMETIMES SAYING THE WORDS “I KNOW HOW YOU FEEL” IS SUCH A LIE.”
“People, Art, Creativity, Passion, and Purpose…That’s my life.”
“I have a broad-based background. And I'm also pro-life and Bible-based.”
“Is it really necessary to have the unnecessary?”
“You live with people, you live with “things”. Which is most important in your life?”
“Rosa Parks changed the course of history, not only for African Americans, but for all of America.  Her life was a testament to the power of one.  For that she will forever be honored.”
“If I could offer but one helpful hint to young Hoosiers hoping to better their odds for success in life, I would simply note the importance of thoughtful reading.”
“I want to spend my life, breathing & living; living & loving; loving & laughing; laughing & smiling; smiling & inspiring; inspiring & creating; creating & accepting; accepting & forgiving.”
“We don't take care of the one asset we spend much of our life purchasing and paying for.”
“For him it was a life issue. That is a very sad situation when people wind up in those circumstances.”
“I will not mass produce. You have no quality control over mass production. I formulate for taste, not shelf-life.”
“kind of made my life difficult, because my script was around before they came around and they had a lot of bigger clout attached to it.”
“Wonder if there is life on another planet? Let's suppose there is. Suppose further, that only one star in a trillion has a planet that could support life. If that were the case, then there would be at least 100 million planets that harbored life.”
“It's easy to tell who the folks are that don't believe in evolution. They're the ones who have refused to participate in it.”
“. . . one of the most uncomfortable four months of my life.”
“It was the hardest year of my life. It was a humbling thing for me. That's the thing I always take from it. All the time you can't be the man. But you've got to play within the confines of a system.”
“Our business runs completely on computers and technology. But even in my own personal life, I can't imagine not having one?I can't imagine what company could stay in business without computers in this day and age.”
““In pride is self-deception and no more so than in he who convinces himself that he is humble.””
“It wasn't exactly the road to riches, but it was a road rich in good lessons for life and leading,”
“Or you got somebody like me, who spent his life out there, rolling up his sleeves, working with people, building teams, being held accountable and making it happen. So that's the choice the people of Tennessee face.”
“His life became a series of seizures and continued paralysis. He fought valiantly and died of a brain tumor.”
“Piers were a critical component to life on the lake - not just a cosmetic feature. They were a functional, practical and necessary part of life.”
“He basically put his life on hold to support my efforts. He was the heart and soul of the campaign.”
“If your business keeps you so busy that you have no time for anything else, there must be something wrong, either with you or with your business.”
“During 2002 we entered the foreign currency market for the first time in my life. In 2003, we enlarged our position, as I became increasingly bearish on the dollar.”
“What you do is not nearly as important as who you are.”
“During 2002 we entered the foreign currency market for the first time in my life, ... In 2003, we enlarged our position, as I became increasingly bearish on the dollar.”
“I have accomplished my dreams, that will bring peace to my mind and happiness to my sol.”
“We all have two lives. One we learn with and the other we live with. One leads us to our purpose - the other fulfulls it.”
“We are like these children, holding a marble in their left hand and not letting it go until they are sure that the swap is in their right hand: we would like to have a new life but without losing the former life. We refuse the moment of passage, the moment of the empty hand.”
“One of the most transformative moments of John's life was when Josie and Jack became part of their family five years ago. What an amazing moment for John and Jane!”
“One of his passions in life was his trombone.”
“One might speak of an unforgettable life or moment even if all men had forgotten it. That predicate would not imply a falsehood but merely a claim unfulfilled by men, and also a realm in which it is fulfilled: God's remembrance.”
“It's really courageous and admirable that Curtis played and did what he did. She's the closest person in his life.”
“John is conservative in his political beliefs. He is somebody, though, who has not defined his life driven by his politics or driven by his ideology.”
“It's not about "no pains, no gains". Life is about "Pain leads to no gains". We chose to experience this sumptuous experience of being human. It it's about pains, would you have chosen to come?”
“The more I thought, the less I need.”
“Always tell the truth. That way, you don't have to remember what you said.”
“He probably made more threes in a half than he's ever made in his life. He shot the ball well.”
“You don't change for other people, you change YOUrself first.”
“I didn't think he'd be there the life of the contract.”
“There's your life before cancer and your life after cancer. I can't say I wish it didn't happen, because I've learned so much because of it.”
“Given that large degree of uncertainty, life could be normal during entry, or some bad things could happen.”
“Outdoor Life has been around for more than 100 years, and it's a natural match for our destination. Its target audience is active anglers and hunters, and we have a variety of those types of opportunities here -- including some of the best fishing in the world.”
“The best way to go is to stop thinking about the worst.”
“We have Regular Life, Cinnamon Life, Honey Graham Life, and oh, look, more Life! And if you don't want Life, we have plenty of other options.”
“This a life-or-death kind of situation. They (the sensors) can prevent bad things from happening if they work properly, and certainly if they work badly, they can cause failings to happen ... . Either way you can get in trouble.”
“Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live forever.”
“Little victories lead to bigger victories that affect the battles that eventually win the war. Winning begins small!”
“Is there any doubt that the people you expect to frustrate you never fail to live up to that expectation?”
“If in life you feel like a stone tossed about in stormy sea, remember that the rough and jagged edges of a stone are smoothed away by the rough waters. It was a small smooth stone that defeated a giant. When your edges are gone what will you be able to conquer with your life?”
“The human race is on its road to self-destruction, and we wouldn't have it any other way. For we are taught not through the consequences of right and wrong but by the vast unknowing that brings us closer to death.”
“Running for your life might of been the only thing you truely lived for.”
“Many people believe they are capable of thinking on their feet. Be aware of the ones who are merely standing in shit.”
“This is a life-or-death kind of situation. You want to shut the engines down if you are running out of gas.”
“This is going to be the longest drive of my life. The people outside look very aggressive.”
“Goals are good, but no better than the mechanical rabbit at a dog race. At the end of the race, they’re useles”
“Live. Love. Rock.”
“You never lose by loving. You always lose by holding back.”
“Life. You either live with or live without.”
“Life is too short to wake up in the morning with regrets. So, love the people who treat you right, forgive the ones who don't and believe everything happens for a reason. If you get a chance, take it. If it changes your life, let it. Nobody said it would be easy, they just promised it would be worth it.”
“If you Live in the Past it will Ruin Your Future.”
“Whenever we asked Judge Roberts basic questions about his moral compass and his life experience, he declined to answer.”
“I love you not only for what you are, but for what I am when I am with you. I love you not only for what you have made of yourself, but for what you are making of me. I love you for the part of me that you bring out.”
“Platitudes and generalities can only be sustained when performance exceeds intellect.”
“Platitudes and generalities can only be sustained when performance exceeds intellect.”
“Some (of them) say, 'What's next?' ... They want to find out as much as they can about the real life of Lincoln.”
“My life in Montana is so diverse from my Hollywood life that it even feels odd for me to go from one life to the other.”
“Support is essential to the realization of every successful outcome.”
“I’m like Chuck Norris without the ass kicking.”
“This is a life-or-death kind of situation. You want to shut the engines down if you're running out of gas, but you don't want to shut the engines down early if you're not running out of gas. Either way you can get in trouble.”
“I'll get blamed. But I've been blamed for losses before. It's not going to change my life.”
“It's good to know what other people are doing, but what is most important is knowing and realizing what you are doing.”
“Let my thoughts about life be the inspiration to your heart.”
“We're not the only family that has ever (faced) tragedy. It's part of life. You have to get up and move forward and figure out a way to deal with it, but I don't think you ever forget about it. It's been hard, probably the worst three weeks I've had in a long time. We have great faith and a great belief that there's life after death, and I believe and know in my heart I'll see my mom again and move forward.”
“Work is the refuge of people who have nothing better to do”
“It's true that we don't know what we've got until we lose it, but it's also true that we don't know what we've been missing until it arrives.”
“I think everybody has to have a purpose in life, ... My enjoyment of so-called working was to be around hockey. The closest thing to being a player is to be able to coach.”
“If life is merely an illusion what can her truth be?”
“TO BE is life's dilemma while facing the eternity of death.”
“Our entire life worth's less than one moment of the absolute's truth vanity.”
“I would say that Pat Robertson is way out on his own, in a leaking life raft, on this one.”
“As life grows more terrible, its literature grows more terrible.”
“He devoted his whole life to education. He kept on giving, even after he retired.”
“Instead of being a slut who ruined her life, she's the heroine who didn't have an abortion,”
“Life is perpetuated by not eating meat.The clenched jaws of hell hold those who do.”
“Moms talk. A lot of the new membership comes from word of mouth. It changed my life and I know other members feel the same, it is just a great support group.”
“A smile costs nothing, but yields huge dividends.”
“When in doubt, be yourself.”
“When in doubt, be yourself.”
“To the man-in-the-street, who, I'm sorry to say, Is a keen observer of life, The word "Intellectual" suggests straight away A man who's untrue to his wife”
“We cannot afford the over-consumptive paradigm of the day; it is either feast today; starve tomorrow or moderate today; survive tomorrow!”
“Hope without responsibility is fatalism.”
“-I wish there was a manual for females [...].
-If there is, I haven't got my copy.”
“When life hands you lemons, throw them at somebody!”
“If it isn't Martial Arts, Music, Poetry, Thought Provoking , GOD, or something that will help make my life better in some way, I really don't care as much as you think I do. If even at all.”
“A shilling life will give you all the facts.”
“Every day is a gift... I'm so glad the present is you."”
“Life in Slow Motion,”
“Any trial lawyer will tell you that juries have a life of their own.”
“When you live at the cost of others, you are counted among the living dead.”
“On the country has gathered the idea of a natural way of life: of peace, innocence, and simple virtue. On the city has gathered the idea of an achieved centre of learning, communication, light. Powerful hostile associations have also developed: on the city as a place of noise, worldliness and ambition; on the country as a place of backwardness, ignorance, limitation. A contrast between country and city, as fundamental ways of life, reaches back into classical times.”
“By the end of the year it will be repaired. Campus Life will have it removed and stored somewhere else until the Day of Silence comes around next year.”
“Evolution is a process. As long as there's life on the planet, it can't not happen.”
“You don't have to be scared of what you don't know. You should look foreward to it everyday.”
“With everything in life, if you don't change your major, you eventually graduate.”
“You can train people to see you in a certain way and you can train them how to treat you.”
“Right now, everything else in my life revolves around my need to keep making movies.”
“People usually complain that their life suck... they are ugly.. they are poor... they are lonely..I guess they should really ask themselves this question. "But then compare to what?"”
“Human beings were not well served by permanence or stasis. Obviously, if individuals were progressing, they were undergoing a series of presumably desirable alterations, but in a universe where flux is fundamental, it can be argued that even change for the worse is preferable to no change at all. Isn't fixity the hallmark of the living dead?”
“I position everything else in my life around making movies.”
“Their desperate craving for simplicity sure can create complications. And their pitiful longing for certainty sure can make things unsteady.”
“You are a complicated man, but happily complicated. You have found a way to be at home with the world's confusion, a way to embrace the chaos rather than struggle to reduce it or become its victim. It's all part of a game to you, and you are delighted to play.”
“This artificial colony on the space station is incredibly lacking compared to the quality of life on Earth. There are much more comfortable places than a shuttle to spend a honeymoon ... You cannot kiss the bride with a space-suit helmet on.”
“In search of harmony; it is impossible for us not to acknowledge and respect each other’s realities and not to realize that Reality might be more than the sum of our realities.”
“Unless you have the courage to analyze your mistakes you are bound to repeat them.”
“Unless you have the courage to analyze your mistakes you are bound to repeat them.”
“To be loved is important as is having a sense of accomplishment but to love is equally important in life especially when it is combined with taking action to do something for someone else to make their life better.”
“Age at first use is an important predictor of the potential for serious substance-abuse problems later in life. The increase in the proportion of admissions for drug use before age 13 should be a wake-up call to parents to speak with their children early and often about the dangers of drug use.”
“I have no idea how this will change my life. I'm pretty satisfied with my life so far, so I hope it doesn't change too much.”
“People talk about how you have to 'balance your life.' You can't – that's a lie. It's just impossible to feel good about yourself all the time. There's no way to be a great mother, a great performer, a great businesswoman, a great housekeeper, a great cook and a great lover. You just can't do it all, but you do the best you can. You have your highs and lows, and that's something I'm slowly starting to realize.”
“When I look at you I see flawless perfection-I know somedays you think my eye needs more training- but it doesnt-I know what I see-you are a flawless beauty and time only serves to prove this right.You are my one true love-the one I have prayed for-the one I struggled and fought to believe could ever exist-and you are here.It was worth it-waiting for you has been worth it-fighting for you has been worth it.You have redefined happiness for me-I am overjoyed that you chose me.I love you.”
“My whole life ... 30 years ... has been doing what I've been doing in the same place, and it will be gone.”
“When everything is perfect or so it seems, look behind your fantasy reality is left to be.”
“Yeah, that changed my life.”
“if you're the best you gotta know people count on you weather handing a cup of water to a teammate, handing them a towel, or hitting the game shot.”
“Being in resistance to 'what is'—fighting gravity all the way down—is what makes life brutally demanding. Life is naturally much easier than we make it. Trees grow, flowers bloom, birds fly, sloths don't seem to do a hell of a lot, and I assume that platypuses do platypussy things – all without resistance to “what is.” All species are designed to live that way: without resistance. Except humans. We complicate things and make life hard for ourselves by resisting life as it is. We try to change things over which we have no control. We want gravity to be different, for the immutable rules that govern our existence to somehow be suspended for us.”
“We condemn this terrorist incident, which has tragically cost the life of an innocent American citizen.”
“Age at first use is an important predictor of the potential for serious substance abuse problems later in life. The increase in the proportion of admissions for drug use before age 13 should be a wake-up call to parents to speak with their children early and often about the dangers of drug use.”
“Bob is a true role model. He lives his life in such a way that we should all teach our children to be like him. He has worked hard all of his life and believes strongly in giving back to his community.”
“I was used to a life of escaping bullets and taking care of myself.”
“Car insurance -- you get a new car; life insurance -- that's one way when you're looking at a gun, there's no other way.”
“This causes us to live a life beyond ourselves.”
“She must have just lost it because I can't for the life of me figure out what happened to make her do this. It's like she just woke up and became a different person. What she did, that's not the woman I've known all these years. That's somebody else.”
“I've been living with the minor second all my life and I finally found a way to handle it.”
“I think that carrying on a life that is meant to be private in public is a breach of taste, common sense, and mental hygiene.”
“Throughout the history of commercial life nobody has ever quite liked the commission man. His function is too vague, his presence always seems one too many, his profit looks too easy, and even when you admit that he has a necessary function, you feel that this function is, as it were, a personification of something that in an ethical society would not need to exist. If people could deal with one another honestly, they would not need agents.”
“Each year the Georgia Life Sciences Summit sets a new attendance record, ... Escalating enthusiasm for the Summit reflects the dramatic growth of the state's bioscience industry and its impact far beyond Georgia. The 2005 Summit will be the best ever, showcasing advanced science and R&D at Georgia's publicly traded and privately held companies and the state's world-class universities.”
“It's just such a part of your life. You take a breath of Blondie every morning.”
“Unfinished business means never ending”
“The Journey of life is a constant pursuit of evolving perceptions”
“It's not the amount of breaths you take, its moments that take your breath away.”
“It's just such a part of your life. You take a breath of Blondie every morning,”
“I've been under the weather lately, completely worn out after working night and day, I've got no coping skills left, laid in bed for 20 mins. feeling anesthetized, my eyes closed felt relaxed. All of a sudden unexpected noise came from outside blustered through my eardrums. Glanced through the window, and saw the neighbor's building mansion next to us. It's just me, couldn't really get over what had been through in life.”
“don't let your foolishness fooled you.”
“A harmonious family is what matters most in life.”
“You can't stop loving or wanting to love because when its right, it's the best thing in the world. When you're in a relationship and it's good, even if nothing else in your life is right, you feel like your whole world is complete.”
“The most important thing in life is to learn how to give out love, and to let it come in.”
“Bitterness is a choice that usually comes after you encounter personal injustice. Choose Love. It is easier to live with.”
“I tend to believe there is no good and evil, only different perspectives.”
“Sometimes this is the hardest work I've done, It is most rewarding work I have ever done in my life, and I don't get paid for it.”
“You can't fix stupid but you can damn sure modify it!”
“Lifes a bitch and it doesn't even put out.”
“in the night; when all is still that one unknown sound is heard, the sound of one's own reality”
“Although he won't serve out many years in jail, [Milosevic] paid the price by ending his life in jail.”
“Oracle Clinical Data Repository will help life sciences organizations surmount integration challenges by providing a solution that manages all aspects of the integration process - data access, transformation, persistence and distribution - in a compliant framework. It will also help them to streamline regulatory compliance. The regulatory drive toward adoption of standards, such as CDISC, will compel life sciences organizations to standardize the way they manage their clinical data, as well as how they format and structure the data for submission to regulators around the world. Oracle Clinical Data Repository will enable organizations to address these requirements by providing a controlled, structured environment in which to build and store clinical information in a ready-to-submit format.”
“Anger is not a real emotion. It is covered by love and fear.”
“A rough kind of justice has ended his life in a padded cell after his crimes were exposed and witnesses came forward including his own associates and that, I think, had a powerful effect.”
“There's only one way of life, and that's your own.”
“To be a beautiful person, fill your life with other beautiful people, places and things.”
“The right destination can make any difficult journey bearable.”
“It isn't the people you fire who make your life miserable, it's the people you don't”
“In the journey of life the more challenges you take the stronger you become.”
“You don't have much of a life.”
“A woman has got to love a bad man once or twice in her life, to be thankful for a good one”
“silence in the dark;
seduction of the night”
“Oracle Clinical Data Repository will help life sciences organizations surmount integration challenges by providing a solution that manages all aspects of the integration process -- data access, transformation, persistence and distribution -- in a compliant framework. It will also help them to streamline regulatory compliance. The regulatory drive toward adoption of standards, such as CDISC, will compel life sciences organizations to standardize the way they manage their clinical data, as well as how they format and structure the data for submission to regulators around the world. Oracle Clinical Data Repository will enable organizations to address these requirements by providing a controlled, structured environment in which to build and store clinical information in a ready-to-submit format.”
“When night falls,
all is calm,
the whispers in the wind,
can be heard”
“Corruption will now cease to be a way of life in Kenya.”
“As highly successful and secure Americans, they could have lived a comfortable life surrounded by their family and their many friends,”
“He faces two futures now -- to spend the rest of his life on the run or else he can defend himself in the International Court of The Hague.”
“I've learned that regardless of your relationship with your parents, you'll miss them when they're gone from your life.”
“Life in exile, abroad, in a foreign element ... a premonition of your own book-form fate, of being lost on the shelf among those with whom all you have in common is the first letter of your surname.”
“Has it changed the way you look at the rest of your life?”
“If there is anything more dangerous to the life of the mind than having no independent commitment to ideas, it is having an excess of commitment to some special and constricting idea.”
“my obsession :)”
“It's just sad that his life has spiraled down to the point where in all likelihood he's going to go to prison. You never like to see anybody go to prison, let alone somebody who is 54 years old.”
“Our hearts become heavy as the wait begins our tears cleanse our soul”
“[And what about the claims that Mutya went out of her way to make life difficult for Heidi, when she joined?] I never argued with her, ... I just didn't speak to her. I thought: I've worked from the youngest age to get where I am and here she is, just jumping in. I found that really hard.”
“became the first to propose ... the possible existence of deep ocean life under the global ice shield perpetually surrounding the enigmatic moon of Jupiter, Europa.”
“Well, I'm using a cane, so what? So what if they shot me sitting in a wheelchair? That's life!”
“The ordinary man sees this court as something from the outside that has little meaning to his life. Most people see the court as an expensive waste that won't really change the country in terms of poverty and other serious problems.”
“Unfortunately, she didn't get that assistance, and she paid with her life.”
“My life is like the summer rose That opens to the morning sky, But ere the shades of evening close Is scattered on the ground - to die”
“You could trace the ups and downs in Elvis' life with his recordings.”
“When we came back from America, I thought our life would change. But it hasn't.”
“I like to playfully gnaw on the hand that feeds me; sometimes it even gives me treats”
“Don't let what you don't have, destroy what you do have.”
“Life has become very difficult for us.”
“There's more fiction in my life than in books, so I don't bother with them.”
“I have no idea how this is going to change my life. It's hard to say. I've only been an Olympic gold medalist for a few minutes now.”
“It's like his life, he's into the joking scene but also into the serious side of the game. I reckon we're going to have a drink after the game, come what may.”
“You never know. I could handle shortstop. I've been there all my life. If I had to, I could.”
“I have to accept that he cheated on me , that he broke my heart , that life goes on , and I have to keep living in it.”
“This is perhaps the most important election in all of Israel's life. We are going to separate between us and the Arabs. This is very important for us to continue having a Jewish state.”
“You can do what ever you think, if you believe in what you think.”
“Life lessons DO NOT come in Sequantial Order...”
“Most people are committed to lack of commitment.”
“This is perhaps the most important election in all of Israel's life.”
“Iraq was at core a war of choice, and extraordinarily expensive by every measure - human life, impact on our military, dollars, diplomatically.”
“Life at any time can become difficult: life at any time can become easy. It all depends upon how one adjusts oneself to life.”
“He's a true friend and a true professional. That play doesn't define Bill Buckner's life or his career.”
“He sees the world in black-and-white. That allows him to drink and fight; it makes life alive for him.”
“Why is life a battlefield.? Is it really necessary to Bleed Sweat or Die to be heard.?
Some say its for you to grow, but how much growing can a person take. If thats the case, why does everything in life have to be about growth? can't for once can't life be smooth sailing?
If blood, sweat and tears are the essence of life, then whats the point?”
“Everyone deserves a second chance in life - EVERYONE, I said.... No matter how much they have messed up! If God - The creator of all things, the beginning and the end, can unconditionaly forgive you over and over again for the mistakes you repeatedly do knowingly.... who or what makes you think you can be the judge of whats appropriate or not?!”
“It's not a myth... when it rains, it pours, and it pours really hard”
“I have no idea how this will change my life.”
“I have been privileged to have the chance to live my life fulfilling my childhood passion. To be rewarded for doing it is really beyond anything that I ever expected.”
“Everybody loves the Underdog and wants them to win, unless you just happen to be playing against the Underdog.”
“one who lives to regret, regrets to live.”
“This museum represents my life, all our lives.”
“Making promises you can't or won't keep is an effective way to dissolve relationships.”
“Just because you're by yourself, doesn't mean you're alone”
“And when life throws its worst at you, throw your best at life”
“Fernando's father was not a part of his life when he was growing up. This bonding process was new. It was something he wanted but probably shouldn't have had.”
“I love you not only for what you are, but for what I am when I am with you. I love you not only for what you have made of yourself, but for what you are making of me. I love you for the part of me that you bring out.”
“The most important thing in life is to learn how to give out love, and to let it come in.”
“Life is the battle fought against stife.”
“Be on the alert to recognize your prime at whatever time of life it may occur”
“Life is the battle fought against strife.”
“There's a lot of evidence that those who cheat on job applications also cheat in school and in life. If someone says they have a degree and they don't, I'd have little faith that person would tell the truth when it came to financial statements and so on.”
“Life In the Fast Lane.”
“I've been very blessed with the people that have come through my life. It was hard to step away from it. I miss the shoeing, but I still have the people.”
“Denial is a wonderful world to live in.”
“[The Galileo findings] opened the door to speculation about life, ... 3001: The Final Odyssey.”
“The implication is that these settings would actually be hospitable to life,”
“He was certainly preparing for the end of his life, but I'm sure he didn't expect it to be this soon.”
“Leave not his hand who holds you, hold not his hand who leaves you”
“We see another chapter in his life, you know, not to give it away. But he goes to another place. And, of course, there's a lot of adventure and craziness.”
“Sail by the light of the stars not by the lights of passing ships.”
“I have dedicated my life to women's rights. Wherever a woman is oppressed, I will go there and fight for her rights.”
“I think that our fundamental belief is that for us growth is a way of life and we have to grow at all times.”
“If China does what it says it will do and it respects the Hong Kong way of life, ... they will continue to prosper along with everyone else in Hong Kong.”
“It's going to make life a whole lot easier.”
“You've got to figure out in this one life that we live what it is that you want to do. Then you can't be afraid to make a sacrifice to accomplish that dream.”
“It is known that there are an infinte number of worlds, simply because there is an infinite amount of space for them to be in. However, not every one of them is inhabited. Any finite number divided by infinity is as near nothing as makes no odds, so the average population of all the planets in the Universe can be said to be zero. From this it follows that the population of the whole Universe is also zero, and that any people you may meet from time to time are merely products of a deranged imagination.”
“Who you decide to be today will determine your tomorrow.”
“To some, beautiful can mean a field with flowers, birds, trees, green grass and a clear blue sky, and to others, beautiful means destruction, fire, guns, dusty view and a gray sky”
“I lead no party; I follow no leader. I have given the best part of my life to careful study of Islam, its law and polity, its culture, its history and its literature.”
“May you increase your knowledge of wisdom.
May you reduce your words of hate.
Don't accept what's unacceptable.
See, feel, listen, touch, love, and communicate.”
“Rise above sectional interests and private ambitions... Pass from matter to spirit. Matter is diversity; spirit is light, life and unity.”
“People need to rediscover the ability to find comfort amidst discomfort. It is only while enduring discomfort that we find solutions.”
“When you look at a coach's life, you are looking at coming to work each day before 6 o'clock and leaving sometime after 12. If you have to be at work before 6, you are up around 4 something. You can't do that on a consistent basis. I think I burned both ends a little bit too much.”
“If faith is lost, there is no security and there is no life for him who does not adhere to religion.”
“When I'm right no one remember. When I'm wrong no one forget.”
“MEN LISTEN. Life is a chess game. PROTECT YOUR QUEENS”
“Lately, I've been living a bicoastal life. As a longtime Massachusetts resident who has benefited greatly from the incredible talent in this region, I'm excited that my new, bicoastal way of life allows me to continue collaborating and contributing to the Bay State's future prosperity.”
“Not only is society unforgiving in nature, it is an illusion in itself. Do not believe the mainstream, it leads to failure. In this life, AND the after.”
“When you can feel good about yourself, it carries over into everyday life. If you can look in the mirror and like yourself, that's the greatest feeling in the world.”
“We do know that the officer, in fear of his life ... potentially this could have been a robbery on the officer and he had to protect himself.”
“Our dream is to deliver a seamless experience where all the technology in your life and business comes together in a way that 'just works' for you.”
“I think the most important thing in life, and certainly politics, is credibility, ... If you want to be credible, you have to be straightforward, and I think that was damaged.”
“One can be content and not be complacent.”
“It's been a good life. I thank goodness for her. I have my good days and my bad days. She's always there for me.”
“One of the most important virtues of the American character is our ability to approach the complexities that life presents us with common sense and decency, ... The considered judgment of the American people is not going to rise or fall on the fine distinctions of a legal argument but on straight talk and the truth. It is time for the president and the Congress to follow that common sense for the good of the country.”
“The school is the most powerful tool for forming the generations that could operate as systemic changes needed for conservation of life on the face of the planet.”
“The program will be a day in the life of Hoagy Carmichael, (featuring) the music he would hear and the dances he would see.”
“But your views and mine are basically the same. You want to do better in life, you want good for this country, you want good for all people. So do I. Some people don't understand that.”
“When you've got employees group against you, and they've got people on the board, they can certainly make your life difficult,”
“My goal is to goad people into saying something that ruins their life.”
“A great teacher never stops being a student.”
“His life is not in vain. Through his life he has called the whole world to look at Texas. He represents everything we've marched for, chanted for, lost our jobs for and got arrested for,”
“If we win the Palestinian elections, our top priority will be rebuilding the economic and social cultural life, rebuild what Israel has destroyed. We are not thinking of destroying Israel .”
“In life we have an unspeakable secret, an irreversible regret, an unreachable dream and an unforgettable love.”
“The city of New Orleans ... will start to breathe again, ... We will have life. We will have commerce. We will have people getting into their normal modes of operations and the normal rhythm of the city.”
“the real-life tale of a serial killer known as the Zodiac Killer, who terrorized San Francisco for 25 years. Graysmith and Avery worked at the San Francisco Chronicle, which the killer used as a conduit to communicate with authorities.”
“That's all dependent on the wind and weather. Life in Antarctica is controlled by those two things.”
“He said that was the prettiest sight he'd seen in his life. So they decided to stay in Baker Valley.”
“Life is funny like that,”
“Even if we are spared destruction by war, our lives will have to change if we want to save life from self-destruction.”
“We shouldn't waste any more time in making sure that democracy is properly rooted in our political life and the supremacy of the law becomes an integral part of our state's structure.”
“As much money and life as you could want! The two things most human beings would choose above all - the trouble is, humans do have a knack of choosing precisely those things that are worst for them.”
“I been in the blues all my life. I'm still delivering 'cause I got a long memory.”
“Live life with a fire that is never extinguished.”
“Life should NOT be a journey to the grave with the intention of arriving safely in an attractive and well-preserved body, but rather to skid in sideways, champagne in one hand - strawberries in the other, body thoroughly used up, totally worn out and screaming .. WOO
HOO - What a Ride!"”
“He liked life. He'd blow kisses to fans in the stands. And when I roomed with him, you never knew about Vic. He might come in right after the game, and he might come in four hours later.”
“Finding out that my family was still alive was one of the greatest moments of my life,”
“It creates an opportunity to simulate a real-life situation in a safe environment, without a catastrophic result. By taking the test and studying, it's just a good refresher for them on the laws and the safe practices that you should exercise each day when you're working with electricity.”
“Some people embrace it. To me, it's not worth enough to risk my private life being public.”
“People talk about my old-fashioned debating style but I did not come into political life to conduct debates but to do things for people.”
“to live an honest life.”
“A discipline I have observed is an attitude of love and reverence to people”
“All animals, except man, know that the principal business of life is to enjoy it.”
“Mourn on you moron !”
“We see in our wards young people in their 30s with advanced liver diseases, their life ruined. I see liver disease all around increasing,”
“I don't think people realize what a problem plastic bags pose to our environment and our marine life -- or how they can take a few simple steps to help solve the problem. It is my hope that the work of these strong business partners and this public education campaign, that we will begin to reduce plastic bag consumption throughout California.”
“The tragedy of life and of the world is not that men do not know God; the tragedy is that, knowing Him, they still insist on going their own way.”
“Is Basking in the Glory of God's Presence on Your "To Do" List....Move it to the TOP and Leave Him there!”
“His intention has been to take responsibility for what he's done. He knows he has taken somebody's life . . . and wants to serve whatever time is just for that.”
“Time waits for no one - including YOU!”
“could save your life.”
“Our beings became one, following our dreams and hopes on the road called life.”
“Ups and downs, negatives and positives. We shall face this life together.”
“My soul in despair. You brought me a healing touch. Now I am at peace within myself.”
“Life can end in an instant. I feel extremely lucky, extremely lucky. I have to thank the one upstairs. I think that my faith has just grown stronger because of this experience.”
“My true thoughts, and my true feelings, that is what makes me the person I am… it is all I have. To give that away to people who could potentially misuse it is the worst sort of folly. I do not trust anyone with my soul.”
“This is a man who dedicated his life to looking after the unfortunate in this world,”
“I've always tried to explore the humorous aspects of life.”
“They literally come from all walks of life -- from rocket scientists to restaurant owners and truck drivers. They were mostly people who were interested in space or anyone who just liked to walk out and look up at the stars at night,”
“It's upsetting to see an innocent person pleading for her life. You sympathize with her. ... I hope she gets released soon.”
“His life probably couldn't be any harder. He's on the lowest rung of anybody in the jail. He's constantly being victimized as a consequence of his conduct. You must be aware that certain prisoners endure the wrath of other prisoners, especially those that are involved in the deaths of children.”
“I hope I never have to use it. But if I do, it may make the difference between life and death for me and my family.”
“One does not devote one's life in art to shock an audience.”
“This is a very special day in the life of the Sunday Times. It has been a long journey for us at the Sunday Times.”
“There is no work of art that has ever been made that is absolutely truthful about life.”
“Day In the Life”
“Doohan is part of a generation thinking, What is an appropriate tribute for my life? It's not just the same choices as grandma had.”
“I kind of signed my life (over to Green Bay) this summer and had all my stuff here. I really didn't know where to send it. I was just kind of waiting to see what was going to happen and see where I had to ship my stuff.”
“Try as much as possible to be wholly alive, with all your might, and when you laugh, laugh like hell and when you get angry, get good and angry. Try to be alive. You will be dead soon enough.”
“How to gain, how to keep, how to recover happiness is in fact for most men at all times the secret motive of all they do, and of all they are willing to endure.”
“He represented the morality of humanity; he represented the free world, the democratic world. He devoted his life to fighting racism, anti-Semitism, Nazism and he really contributed to making a better world for the next generation.”
“Who can hide himself from death or who can embrace the wind?”
“He represented the morality of humanity; he represented the free world, the democratic world, ... He devoted his life to fighting racism, anti-Semitism, Nazism and he really contributed to making a better world for the next generation.”
“One will never find in the waterfall of sights anything else than the Illusion of Life, which falls in torrents on the granite rocks of the souls.”
“Well, lo and behold, the greatest thing that ever happened in my life, a month later Alvin Cooperman called back and told my father that I had tremendous talent!”
“I adore you, my greatest love, as only through you I can find my moment’s eternity.”
“It was a very disciplined life,”
“A man's personality does not affect his anointing, however if he embraces the fact that he has an anointing it can only flourish.”
“The only way to live is to live for the Now, Present, The Moment!”
“Put love in a bottle...shake it up, then let the positive pressure build up... Open it and let it explode on the world!”
“Shoot for the moon. If you miss, you will still be among the stars.”
“For all the sad words of tongue or pen, the saddest are these: "It might have been"”
“What else can we expect from kids who are exposed to murders on TV and murders, ... We've desensitized human life through our callousness and disrespect for one another.”
“A lost friendship is an enemy won.”
“I'm there to make a kind of theatrical music that is desperately missing in my life. And if other people don't like it, I'm very unhappy, but I can't do anything about that.”
“Do not treat life as a way to pass the time until you die. Live deliberately.”
“He is in a battle for his life, ... He is one of my favorite guys on the team. That is pretty much an indication of how that group at wide receiver is going.”
“Got the will, finding the way.”
“I thought Joe caught real well. He had a lot of life. He bounced around behind the plate real well.”
“He made that decision based on a lot of personal things going on in his life, so I certainly don't fault him for deciding not to run, ... We will have many good candidates and our party's going to have to decide who we want, who the best candidate is to take on Blagojevich.”
“When it comes to my life I have always been an optimist. My door is always open, and My pants are always down.”
““Wisdom is the subtlety of knowing which rules to bend and which rules to break””
“The first symptom of love in a young man is shyness; the first symptom in a woman, it's boldness.”
“I was really infuriated, ... I've been a Red Sox fan all my life and I don't even want to watch them now.”
“He touched my life. He told me you have to work hard but you also have to work smart. He said you not only need work on the areas you're good in, it's important to get strong in the areas in which you're weak.”
“We talked life, we talked books, we talked philosophy. There was very little hockey talk.”
“It took on a life of its own.”
“No tiredness can destroy hope like death can, as the absolute fatigue of life.”
“I have always been pro-life, and I have felt very strongly about this from the first day I went to Washington, D.C., as a congressman in 1983.”
“One of the most important things that I have learned in my 57 years is that life is all about choices. On every journey you take, you face choices. At every fork in the road, you make a choice. And it is those decisions that shape our lives.”
“No Turning Back: The Life and Death of Animal Species ... deeply informed and crafted with artistry.”
“Got the will, finding the way.”
“the INCREASE and DECREASE of human life expectancy on earth is determined by obedience and disobedience. obedience add life but disobedience reduces it. OBEY”
“No matter how beautiful people are, they still look ugly if they don’t have manners. – Shahwan SETHI”
