"The half is better than the whole."
"The fish always stinks from the head downwards."
"The blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church."
"Young men may die, but old men must die."
"A young man married is a young man marred."
"Young folks think old folks to be fools, but old folks know young folks to be fools."
"You cannot shift an old tree without it dying."
"You cannot serve God and Mammon."
"You cannot put an old head on young shoulders."
"You cannot lose what you never had."
"You cannot have your cake and eat it."
"You can’t teach an old dog new tricks."
"You can’t make a silk purse out of a sow’s ear."
"You can drive out nature with a pitchfork but she keeps on coming back."
"The worth of a thing is what it will bring."
"A word to the wise is enough."
"A woman’s work is never done."
"A woman and a ship ever want mending."
"The wish is father to the thought."
"Why keep a dog and bark yourself?"
"Whom the Gods love die young."
"While there’s life there’s hope."
"Where the carcase is, there shall the eagles be gathered together."
"Where God builds a church, the Devil will build a chapel."
"When things are at the worst they begin to mend."
"When thieves fall out, honest men come by their own."
"When one door shuts, another opens."
"What you don’t know can’t hurt you."
"What the eye doesn’t see, the heart doesn’t grieve over."
"What is got over the Devil’s back is spent under his belly."
"What can’t be cured must be endured."
"What a neighbour gets is not lost."
"The weakest go to the wall."
"Virtue is its own reward."
"Turkey, heresy, hops, and beer came into England all in one year."
"Truth lies at the bottom of a well."
"The tree is known by its fruit."
"Too many cooks spoil the broth."
"The tongue always returns to the sore tooth."
"To err is human (to forgive divine)."
"Times change and we with time."
"Time works wonders."
"Time will tell."
"Threatened men live long."
"The third time pays for all."
"Think first and speak afterwards."
"They that sow the wind, shall reap the whirlwind."
"There’s none so deaf as those who will not hear."
"There’s none so blind as those who will not see."
"There’s no place like home."
"There’s no fool like an old fool."
"There’s many a slip ‘twixt cup and lip."
"There is truth in wine."
"There is nothing new under the sun."
"There is luck in odd numbers."
"There is a time and place for everything."
"There goes more to marriage than four bare legs in a bed."
"There are as good fish in the sea as ever came out of it."
"A tale never loses in the telling."
"Stretch your arm no further than your sleeve will reach."
"A still tongue makes a wise head."
"Spare well and have to spend."
"The sooner begun, the sooner done."
"Something is better than nothing."
"Small choice in rotten apples."
"A slice off a cut loaf isn’t missed."
"Silence is a woman’s best garment."
"A shut mouth catches no flies."
"Short reckonings make long friends."
"The shoemaker’s son always goes barefoot."
"Set a beggar on horseback, and he’ll ride to the Devil."
"September blow soft till the fruit’s in the loft."
"Seek and ye shall find."
"Second thoughts are best."
"Safe bind, safe find."
"Revenge is sweet."
"Quickly come, quickly go."
"The quarrel of lovers is the renewal of love."
"Put a stout heart to a stey brae."
"Poverty is not a crime."
"Poverty is no disgrace, but it’s a great inconvenience."
"The post of honour is the post of danger."
"A peck of March dust is worth a king’s ransom."
"Pay beforehand was never well served."
"An ounce of practice is worth a pound of precept."
"Other times, other manners."
"Opportunity never knocks twice at any man’s door."
"One swallow does not make a summer."
"One story is good till another is told."
"One man may steal a horse, while another may not look over a hedge."
"One hand washes the other."
"One Englishman can beat three Frenchmen."
"One cannot love and be wise."
"No penny, no paternoster."
"No pain, no gain."
"No money, no Swiss."
"Night brings counsel."
"New lords, new laws."
"New brooms sweep clean."
"Never too old to learn."
"Never tell tales out of school."
"Never speak ill of the dead."
"Never mention rope in the house of a man who has been hanged."
"Never do evil that good may come of it."
"Never choose your women or linen by candlelight."
"Near is my shirt, but nearer is my skin."
"Nature abhors a vacuum."
"A mouse may help a lion."
"Morning dreams come true."
"The more you stir it the worse it stinks."
"Money makes the mare to go."
"Money makes money."
"Money makes a man."
"Marry in haste repent at leisure."
"Marriages are made in heaven."
"Many go out for wool and come home shorn."
"Man is the measure of all things."
"Love me little, love me long."
"Lookers-on see most of the game."
"Long and lazy, little and loud; fat and fulsome, pretty and proud."
"A little pot is soon hot."
"Little pitchers have large ears."
"Like master, like man."
"Like breeds like."
"A liar ought to have a good memory."
"Let well alone."
"Let them laugh that win."
"Let the cobbler stick to his last."
"Let the buyer beware."
"Kings have long arms."
"Jove but laughs at lovers’ perjury."
"It takes two to make a bargain."
"It’s an ill wind that blows nobody any good."
"It is the first step that is difficult."
"It is never too late to mend."
"It is good to make a bridge of gold to a flying enemy."
"It is easy to find a stick to beat a dog."
"It is easier to pull down than to build up."
"It is a wise child that knows its own father."
"It is a poor dog that’s not worth whistling for."
"If you run after two hares you will catch neither."
"If you’re born to be hanged then you’ll never be drowned."
"If you lie down with dogs, you will get up with fleas."
"If you gently touch a nettle it’ll sting you for your pains; grasp it like a lad of mettle, an’ as soft as silk remains."
"If you don’t work you shan’t eat."
"If two ride on a horse, one must ride behind."
"If Saint Paul’s day be fair and clear, it will betide a happy year."
"Hope for the best and prepare for the worst."
"Hope deferred makes the heart sick."
"Home is home though it's never so homely."
"He who fights and runs away, may live to fight another day."
"He that will thrive must first as his wife."
"He lives long who lives well."
"Hawks will not pick out hawks eyes."
"Happy's the wooing that is not long a-doing."
"Good seed makes a good crop."
"A golden key can open any door."
"Gold may be bought too dear."
"Give a thing, and take a thing, to wear the devil's gold ring."
"From the sweetest wine, the tartest vinegar."
"Fortune favours fools."
"Forewarned is forearmed."
"Fish and guests stink after three days."
"Fine feathers make fine birds."
"A false confessed is half redressed."
"A fair exchange is no robbery."
"The eyes are the window of the soul."
"Evil doers are evil dreaders."
"Every tub must stand on its own bottom."
"Every man to his trade."
"Every man to his taste."
"Every man for himself and the Devil take the hindmost."
"Every bullet has its billet."
"Even a worm will turn."
"An Englishman's home is his castle."
"Eagles don't catch flies."
"A drowning man will clutch at a straw."
"Don't cut off your nose to spite your face."
"Don't cry before you're hurt."
"Dog does not eat dog."
"Do as you would be done by."
"Do as I say, not as I do."
"Discretion is the better part of valour."
"Dirty water will quench fire."
"The devil is not so black as he is painted."
"The devil can quote Scripture for his own ends."
"Desperate diseases must have desperate remedies."
"Delays are dangerous."
"A deaf husband and a blind wife are always a happy couple."
"Cut your coat according to your cloth."
"Cowards may die many times before their deaths."
"Confess and be hanged."
"Children and fools tell the truth."
"A cat may look at a king."
"A cat in gloves catches no mice."
"A carpenter is known by his chips."
"Call no man happy till he dies."
"Buy in the cheapest market and sell in the dearest."
"A bleating sheep loses a bite."
"Better one house spoiled than two."
"Better to be an old man's darling than a young man's slave."
"Better a dinner of herbs than a stalled ox where hate is."
"Be the day weary or be the day long, at last it ringeth to evensong."
"One man’s meat is another man’s poison."
"One man’s loss is another man’s gain."
"The leopard does not change his spots."
"It’s ill waiting for dead men’s shoes."
"He that liveth in hope dances to an ill tune."
"Hanging and wiving go by destiny."
"A grey mare is the better horse."
"God sends meat, but the Devil sends cooks."
"Go further and fare worse."
"Four eyes see more than two."
"Fingers were made before forks."
"An Englishman's word is his bond."
"The end crowns the work."
"The devil makes his Christmas pies of lawyers' tongues and clerks' fingers."
"The best doctors are Dr Diet, Dr Quiet, and Dr Merryman."
"Beauty draws with a single hair."
"Bear and forbear."
"A barking dog never bites."
"A bad excuse is better than none."
"As good be an addled egg as an idle bird."
"As a tree falls, so shall it lie."
"April showers bring forth May flowers."
"An ape's an ape, a varlet's a varlet, though they be clad in silk or scarlet."
"All is fish that comes to the net."
"The age of miracles is past."
"After dinner rest awhile, after supper walk a mile."
"Tomorrow is another day."
"He that cannot obey cannot command."
"Better to be envied than pitied."
"As you make your bed, so you must lie upon it."
"Beggars can't be choosers."
"As you bake so shall you brew."
"All things come to those who wait."
"A place for everything, and everything in its place."
"Never look a gift horse in the mouth."
